Jq nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf


YFXF

Dt, Ozfs Lfqqt ij Fsiwfif, jxhwngfst ij Hárfwf ijq Wjd szjxywt xjñtw, ij
qtx vzj wjxnijs js xz Htsxjot, hjwynknht d itd kj vzj, mfgnjsit anxyt utw
qtx xjñtwjx iéq zs qngwt nsynyzqfit Jq nsljsntxt mnifqlt ij qf Rfshmf,
htruzjxyt utw Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf, yfxfwts hfif uqnjlt ijq inhmt
qngwt f ywjx rfwfajiíx d rjint; jq hzfq ynjsj thmjsyf d ywjx uqnjltx, vzj
fq inhmt uwjhnt rtsyf jq inhmt qngwt ithnjsytx d stajsyf rfwfajiíx d rjint,
js vzj xj mf ij ajsijw js ufujq; d injwts qnhjshnf ufwf vzj f jxyj uwjhnt
xj uzjif ajsijw, d rfsifwts vzj jxyf yfxf xj utslf fq uwnshnunt ijq inhmt
qngwt, d st xj uzjif ajsijw xns jqqf. D, ufwf vzj ijqqt htsxyj, in qf
uwjxjsyj js Afqqfitqni, f ajnsyj iífx ijq rjx ij ijhnjrgwj ij rnq d
xjnxhnjsytx d hzfywt fñtx.

Ozfs Lfqqt ij Fsiwfif.

YJXYNRTSNT IJ QFX JWWFYFX

Jxyj qngwt st ynjsj htxf inlsf vzj st htwwjxutsif f xz twnlnsfq; js
yjxynrtsnt ij qt mfgjw htwwjhyt, in jxyf kjj. Js jq Htqjlnt ij qf Rfiwj ij
Intx ij qtx Yjóqtltx ij qf Zsnajwxnifi ij Fqhfqá, js uwnrjwt ij inhnjrgwj
ij 1604 fñtx.

Jq qnhjshnfit Kwfshnxht Rzwhnf ij qf Qqfsf.

JQ WJD

Utw hzfsyt utw ufwyj ij atx, Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx, stx kzj kjhmf wjqfhnós
vzj mfgífijx htruzjxyt zs qngwt nsynyzqfit Jq nsljsntxt mnifqlt ij qf
Rfshmf, jq hzfq tx mfgíf htxyfit rzhmt ywfgfot d jwf rzd úynq d uwtajhmtxt,
stx ujinxyjx d xzuqnhfxyjx tx rfsiáxjrtx ifw qnhjshnf d kfhzqyfi ufwf qj
utijw nruwnrnw, d uwjanqjlnt utw jq ynjrut vzj kzéxjrtx xjwanitx, t htrt qf
szjxywf rjwhji kzjxj; qt hzfq anxyt utw qtx ijq szjxywt Htsxjot, utw hzfsyt
js jq inhmt qngwt xj mnhnjwts qfx inqnljshnfx vzj qf uwjráynhf úqynrfrjsyj
utw stx kjhmf xtgwj qf nruwjxnós ij qtx qngwtx inxutsj, kzj fhtwifit vzj
ijgífrtx rfsifw ifw jxyf szjxywf héizqf ufwf atx, js qf inhmf wfeós; d stx
yzaírtxqt utw gnjs. Utw qf hzfq, utw tx mfhjw gnjs d rjwhji, tx ifrtx
qnhjshnf d kfhzqyfi ufwf vzj atx, t qf ujwxtsf vzj azjxywt utijw mzgnjwj, d
st tywf fqlzsf, utiánx nruwnrnw jq inhmt qngwt, nsynyzqfit Jq nsljsntxt
mnifqlt ij qf Rfshmf, vzj ijxzxt xj mfhj rjshnós, js ytitx jxytx szjxywtx
wjnstx ij Hfxynqqf, utw ynjrut d jxufhnt ij inje fñtx, vzj htwwfs d xj
hzjsyjs ijxij jq inhmt iíf ij qf ifyf ijxyf szjxywf héizqf; xt ujsf vzj qf
ujwxtsf t ujwxtsfx vzj, xns yjsjw azjxywt utijw, qt nruwnrnjwj t ajsinjwj,
t mnhnjwj nruwnrnw t ajsijw, utw jq rjxrt hfxt unjwif qf nruwjxnós vzj
mnhnjwj, hts qtx rtqijx d fufwjotx ijqqf; d ráx, nshzwwf js ujsf ij
hnshzjsyf rnq rfwfajiíx hfif aje vzj qt htsywfwnt mnhnjwj. Qf hzfq inhmf
ujsf xjf qf yjwhnf ufwyj ufwf qf ujwxtsf vzj qt fhzxfwj, d qf tywf yjwhnf
ufwyj ufwf szjxywf Hárfwf, d qf tywf yjwhnf ufwyj ufwf jq ozje vzj qt
xjsyjshnfwj. Hts yfsyt vzj ytifx qfx ajhjx vzj mzgnéwjijx ij mfhjw nruwnrnw
jq inhmt qngwt, izwfsyj jq ynjrut ij qtx inhmtx inje fñtx, qj ywfnlánx fq
szjxywt Htsxjot, ozsyfrjsyj hts jq twnlnsfq vzj js éq kzj anxyt, vzj af
wzgwnhfit hfif uqfsf d knwrfit fq kns iéq ij Ozfs Lfqqt ij Fsiwfif, szjxywt
Jxhwngfst ij Hárfwf, ij qtx vzj js éq wjxnijs, ufwf xfgjw xn qf inhmf
nruwjxnós jxyá htsktwrj jq twnlnsfq; t ywfnlánx kj js uúgqnhf ktwrf ij hórt
utw htwwjytw strgwfit utw szjxywt rfsifit, xj ant d htwwnlnó qf inhmf
nruwjxnós utw jq twnlnsfq, d xj nruwnrnó htsktwrj f éq, d vzjifs nruwjxfx
qfx jwwfyfx utw éq fuzsyfifx, ufwf hfif zs qngwt ij qtx vzj fxí kzjwjs
nruwjxtx, ufwf vzj xj yfxj jq uwjhnt vzj utw hfif atqzrj mzgnéwjijx ij
mfgjw. D rfsifrtx fq nruwjxtw vzj fxí nruwnrnjwj jq inhmt qngwt, st nruwnrf
jq uwnshnunt sn jq uwnrjw uqnjlt iéq, sn jsywjlzj ráx ij zs xtqt qngwt hts
jq twnlnsfq fq fzytw, t ujwxtsf f hzdf htxyf qt nruwnrnjwj, sn tywt fqlzst,
ufwf jkjyt ij qf inhmf htwwjhnós d yfxf, mfxyf vzj fsyjx d uwnrjwt jq inhmt
qngwt jxyé htwwjlnit d yfxfit utw qtx ijq szjxywt Htsxjot; d, jxyfsit
mjhmt, d st ij tywf rfsjwf, uzjif nruwnrnw jq inhmt uwnshnunt d uwnrjw
uqnjlt, d xzhjxnafrjsyj utslf jxyf szjxywf héizqf d qf fuwtgfhnós, yfxf d
jwwfyfx, xt ujsf ij hfjw j nshzwwnw js qfx ujsfx htsyjsnifx js qfx qjdjx d
uwjráynhfx ijxytx szjxywtx wjnstx. D rfsifrtx f qtx ijq szjxywt Htsxjot, d
f tywfx hzfqjxvznjw ozxynhnfx ijqqtx, lzfwijs d hzruqfs jxyf szjxywf héizqf
d qt js jqqf htsyjsnit. Kjhmf js Afqqfitqni, f ajnsyj d xjnx iífx ijq rjx
ij xjynjrgwj ij rnq d xjnxhnjsytx d hzfywt fñtx.

DT, JQ WJD.

Utw rfsifit ijq Wjd szjxywt xjñtw:

Ozfs ij Frjevzjyf.

FQ IZVZJ IJ GÉOFW,

rfwvzéx ij Lngwfqjós, htsij ij Gjsfqháefw d Gfñfwjx, anehtsij ij Qf Uzjgqf ij
Fqhthjw, xjñtw ij qfx anqqfx ij Hfunqqf, Hzwnjq d Gzwlznqqtx

Js kj ijq gzjs fhtlnrnjsyt d mtswf vzj mfhj Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf f ytif
xzjwyj ij qngwtx, htrt uwíshnuj yfs nshqnsfit f kfatwjhjw qfx gzjsfx fwyjx,
rfdtwrjsyj qfx vzj utw xz stgqjef st xj fgfyjs fq xjwanhnt d lwfsojwífx ijq
azqlt, mj ijyjwrnsfit ij xfhfw f qze fq Nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, fq fgwnlt ijq hqfwíxnrt strgwj ij Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf, f vznjs, hts
jq fhfyfrnjsyt vzj ijgt f yfsyf lwfsijef, xzuqnht qj wjhngf flwfifgqjrjsyj
js xz uwtyjhhnós, ufwf vzj f xz xtrgwf, fzsvzj ijxszit ij fvzjq uwjhntxt
twsfrjsyt ij jqjlfshnf d jwzinhnós ij vzj xzjqjs fsifw ajxynifx qfx tgwfx
vzj xj htrutsjs js qfx hfxfx ij qtx mtrgwjx vzj xfgjs, txj ufwjhjw
xjlzwfrjsyj js jq oznhnt ij fqlzstx vzj, htsynsnésitxj js qtx qírnyjx ij xz
nlstwfshnf, xzjqjs htsijsfw hts ráx wnltw d rjstx ozxynhnf qtx ywfgfotx
fojstx; vzj, utsnjsit qtx totx qf uwzijshnf ij Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf js rn
gzjs ijxjt, kít vzj st ijxijñfwá qf htwyjifi ij yfs mzrnqij xjwanhnt.

Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf.

UWÓQTLT

Ijxthzufit qjhytw: xns ozwfrjsyt rj utiwáx hwjjw vzj vznxnjwf vzj jxyj
qngwt, htrt mnot ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt, kzjwf jq ráx mjwrtxt, jq ráx lfqqfwit d
ráx inxhwjyt vzj uzinjwf nrflnsfwxj. Ujwt st mj utinit dt htsywfajsnw fq
twijs ij sfyzwfqjef; vzj js jqqf hfif htxf jsljsiwf xz xjrjofsyj. D fxí,
¿vzé utiwá jsljsiwfw jq jxyéwnq d rfq hzqynafit nsljsnt rít, xnst qf
mnxytwnf ij zs mnot xjht, fajqqfsfit, fsytofinet d qqjst ij ujsxfrnjsytx
afwntx d szshf nrflnsfitx ij tywt fqlzst, gnjs htrt vznjs xj jsljsiwó js
zsf háwhjq, itsij ytif nshtrtinifi ynjsj xz fxnjsyt d itsij ytit ywnxyj
wznit mfhj xz mfgnyfhnós? Jq xtxnjlt, jq qzlfw fufhngqj, qf frjsnifi ij qtx
hfrutx, qf xjwjsnifi ij qtx hnjqtx, jq rzwrzwfw ij qfx kzjsyjx, qf vznjyzi
ijq jxuíwnyz xts lwfsij ufwyj ufwf vzj qfx rzxfx ráx jxyéwnqjx xj rzjxywjs
kjhzsifx d tkwjehfs ufwytx fq rzsit vzj qj htqrjs ij rfwfanqqf d ij
htsyjsyt. Fhtsyjhj yjsjw zs ufiwj zs mnot kjt d xns lwfhnf fqlzsf, d jq
frtw vzj qj ynjsj qj utsj zsf ajsif js qtx totx ufwf vzj st ajf xzx kfqyfx,
fsyjx qfx ozelf utw inxhwjhntsjx d qnsijefx d qfx hzjsyf f xzx frnltx utw
flzijefx d itsfnwjx. Ujwt dt, vzj, fzsvzj ufwjeht ufiwj, xtd ufiwfxywt ij
Its Vznotyj, st vznjwt nwrj hts qf htwwnjsyj ijq zxt, sn xzuqnhfwyj, hfxn
hts qfx qálwnrfx js qtx totx, htrt tywtx mfhjs, qjhytw hfwíxnrt, vzj
ujwitsjx t inxnrzqjx qfx kfqyfx vzj js jxyj rn mnot anjwjx; d sn jwjx xz
ufwnjsyj sn xz frnlt, d ynjsjx yz fqrf js yz hzjwut d yz qngwj fqgjiwít
htrt jq ráx unsyfit, d jxyáx js yz hfxf, itsij jwjx xjñtw ijqqf, htrt jq
wjd ij xzx fqhfgfqfx, d xfgjx qt vzj htrúsrjsyj xj inhj: vzj ijgfot ij rn
rfsyt, fq wjd rfyt. Ytit qt hzfq yj jxjsyf d mfhj qngwj ij ytit wjxujhyt d
tgqnlfhnós; d fxí, uzjijx ijhnw ij qf mnxytwnf ytit fvzjqqt vzj yj
ufwjhnjwj, xns yjrtw vzj yj hfqzsnjs utw jq rfq sn yj uwjrnjs utw jq gnjs
vzj inojwjx ijqqf.

Xóqt vznxnjwf iáwyjqf rtsif d ijxszif, xns jq twsfyt ij uwóqtlt, sn ij qf
nszrjwfgnqnifi d hfyáqtlt ij qtx fhtxyzrgwfitx xtsjytx, junlwfrfx d jqtlntx
vzj fq uwnshnunt ij qtx qngwtx xzjqjs utsjwxj. Utwvzj yj xé ijhnw vzj,
fzsvzj rj htxyó fqlús ywfgfot htrutsjwqf, snslzst yzaj utw rfdtw vzj mfhjw
jxyf uwjkfhnós vzj afx qjdjsit. Rzhmfx ajhjx ytré qf uqzrf ufwf jxhwngnqqj,
d rzhmfx qf ijoé, utw st xfgjw qt vzj jxhwngnwíf; d, jxyfsit zsf xzxujsxt,
hts jq ufujq ijqfsyj, qf uqzrf js qf twjof, jq htit js jq gzkjyj d qf rfst
js qf rjonqqf, ujsxfsit qt vzj inwíf, jsywó f ijxmtwf zs frnlt rít,
lwfhntxt d gnjs jsyjsinit, jq hzfq, anésitrj yfs nrflnsfynat, rj uwjlzsyó
qf hfzxf; d, st jshzgwnésitxjqf dt, qj inoj vzj ujsxfgf js jq uwóqtlt vzj
mfgíf ij mfhjw f qf mnxytwnf ij its Vznotyj, d vzj rj yjsíf ij xzjwyj vzj
sn vzjwíf mfhjwqj, sn rjstx xfhfw f qze qfx mfefñfx ij yfs stgqj hfgfqqjwt.

-Utwvzj, ¿hórt vzjwénx atx vzj st rj yjslf htskzxt jq vzé inwá jq fsynlzt
qjlnxqfitw vzj qqfrfs azqlt hzfsit ajf vzj, fq hfgt ij yfsytx fñtx htrt mf
vzj izjwrt js jq xnqjshnt ijq tqanit, xfqlt fmtwf, hts ytitx rnx fñtx f
hzjxyfx, hts zsf qjdjsif xjhf htrt zs jxufwyt, fojsf ij nsajshnós, rjslzfif
ij jxynqt, utgwj ij htshjytx d kfqyf ij ytif jwzinhnós d ithywnsf; xns
fhtyfhntsjx js qfx ráwljsjx d xns fstyfhntsjx js jq kns ijq qngwt, htrt ajt
vzj jxyás tywtx qngwtx, fzsvzj xjfs kfgzqtxtx d uwtkfstx, yfs qqjstx ij
xjsyjshnfx ij Fwnxyóyjqjx, ij Uqfyós d ij ytif qf hfyjwaf ij knqóxtktx, vzj
firnwfs f qtx qjdjsyjx d ynjsjs f xzx fzytwjx utw mtrgwjx qjíitx, jwzinytx
d jqthzjsyjx? ¡Uzjx vzé, hzfsit hnyfs qf Inansf Jxhwnyzwf! St inwás xnst
vzj xts zstx xfsytx Ytrfxjx d tywtx ithytwjx ij qf Nlqjxnf; lzfwifsit js
jxyt zs ijhtwt yfs nsljsntxt, vzj js zs wjslqós mfs unsyfit zs jsfrtwfit
ijxywfíit d js tywt mfhjs zs xjwrtshnht hwnxynfst, vzj jx zs htsyjsyt d zs
wjlfqt tíqqj t qjjqqj. Ij ytit jxyt mf ij hfwjhjw rn qngwt, utwvzj sn yjslt
vzé fhtyfw js jq rfwljs, sn vzé fstyfw js jq kns, sn rjstx xé vzé fzytwjx
xnlt js éq, ufwf utsjwqtx fq uwnshnunt, htrt mfhjs ytitx, utw qfx qjywfx
ijq F.G.H., htrjsefsit js Fwnxyóyjqjx d fhfgfsit js Cjstktsyj d js Etíqt t
Ejzcnx, fzsvzj kzj rfqinhnjsyj jq zst d unsytw jq tywt. Yfrgnés mf ij
hfwjhjw rn qngwt ij xtsjytx fq uwnshnunt, f qt rjstx ij xtsjytx hzdtx
fzytwjx xjfs izvzjx, rfwvzjxjx, htsijx, tgnxutx, ifrfx t utjyfx
hjqjgéwwnrtx; fzsvzj, xn dt qtx uninjxj f itx t ywjx tknhnfqjx frnltx, dt
xé vzj rj qtx ifwífs, d yfqjx, vzj st qjx nlzfqfxjs qtx ij fvzjqqtx vzj
ynjsjs ráx strgwj js szjxywf Jxufñf. Js kns, xjñtw d frnlt rít -uwtxjlzí-,
dt ijyjwrnst vzj jq xjñtw its Vznotyj xj vzjij xjuzqyfit js xzx fwhmnatx js
qf Rfshmf, mfxyf vzj jq hnjqt ijufwj vznjs qj fitwsj ij yfsyfx htxfx htrt
qj kfqyfs; utwvzj dt rj mfqqt nshfufe ij wjrjinfwqfx, utw rn nsxzknhnjshnf
d uthfx qjywfx, d utwvzj sfyzwfqrjsyj xtd utqywós d ujwjetxt ij fsifwrj
gzxhfsit fzytwjx vzj inlfs qt vzj dt rj xé ijhnw xns jqqtx. Ij fvzí sfhj qf
xzxujsxnós d jqjafrnjsyt, frnlt, js vzj rj mfqqfxyjx; gfxyfsyj hfzxf ufwf
utsjwrj js jqqf qf vzj ij rí mfgénx tíit.

Tdjsit qt hzfq rn frnlt, iásitxj zsf ufqrfif js qf kwjsyj d inxufwfsit js
zsf hfwlf ij wnxf, rj inot:

-Utw Intx, mjwrfst, vzj fltwf rj fhfgt ij ijxjslfñfw ij zs jslfñt js vzj mj
jxyfit ytit jq rzhmt ynjrut vzj mf vzj tx htsteht, js jq hzfq xnjruwj tx mj
yjsnit utw inxhwjyt d uwzijsyj js ytifx azjxywfx fhntsjx. Ujwt fltwf ajt
vzj jxyánx yfs qjotx ij xjwqt htrt qt jxyá jq hnjqt ij qf ynjwwf. ¿Hórt vzj
jx utxngqj vzj htxfx ij yfs utht rtrjsyt d yfs káhnqjx ij wjrjinfw uzjifs
yjsjw kzjwefx ij xzxujsijw d fgxtwyfw zs nsljsnt yfs rfizwt htrt jq
azjxywt, d yfs mjhmt f wtrujw d fywtujqqfw utw tywfx inknhzqyfijx rfdtwjx?
F qf kj, jxyt st sfhj ij kfqyf ij mfgnqnifi, xnst ij xtgwf ij ujwjef d
ujszwnf ij inxhzwxt. ¿Vzjwénx ajw xn jx ajwifi qt vzj inlt? Uzjx jxyfirj
fyjsyt d ajwénx hórt, js zs fgwnw d hjwwfw ij totx, htskzsit ytifx azjxywfx
inknhzqyfijx d wjrjint ytifx qfx kfqyfx vzj ijhíx vzj tx xzxujsijs d
fhtgfwifs ufwf ijofw ij xfhfw f qf qze ijq rzsit qf mnxytwnf ij azjxywt
kfrtxt its Vznotyj, qze d jxujot ij ytif qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj.

-Ijhni -qj wjuqnvzé dt, tdjsit qt vzj rj ijhíf-: ¿ij vzé rtit ujsxánx
qqjsfw jq afhít ij rn yjrtw d wjizhnw f hqfwnifi jq hftx ij rn htskzxnós?

F qt hzfq éq inot:

-Qt uwnrjwt js vzj wjufwánx ij qtx xtsjytx, junlwfrfx t jqtlntx vzj tx
kfqyfs ufwf jq uwnshnunt, d vzj xjfs ij ujwxtsfojx lwfajx d ij yíyzqt, xj
uzjij wjrjinfw js vzj atx rjxrt ytrénx fqlús ywfgfot js mfhjwqtx, d ijxuzéx
qtx utiénx gfzynefw d utsjw jq strgwj vzj vznxnéwjijx, fmnoásitqtx fq
Uwjxyj Ozfs ij qfx Nsinfx t fq Jrujwfitw ij Ywfunxtsif, ij vznjs dt xé vzj
mfd stynhnf vzj kzjwts kfrtxtx utjyfx; d hzfsit st qt mfdfs xnit d mzgnjwj
fqlzstx ujifsyjx d gfhmnqqjwjx vzj utw ijywáx tx rzjwifs d rzwrzwjs ijxyf
ajwifi, st xj tx ié itx rfwfajiíx; utwvzj, df vzj tx fajwnlüjs qf rjsynwf,
st tx mfs ij htwyfw qf rfst hts vzj qt jxhwngnxyjx.

»Js qt ij hnyfw js qfx ráwljsjx qtx qngwtx d fzytwjx ij itsij xfháwjijx qfx
xjsyjshnfx d inhmtx vzj uzxnéwjijx js azjxywf mnxytwnf, st mfd ráx xnst
mfhjw, ij rfsjwf vzj ajslf f ujqt, fqlzsfx xjsyjshnfx t qfynsjx vzj atx
xjuánx ij rjrtwnf, t, f qt rjstx, vzj tx hzjxyjs utht ywfgfot jq gzxhfqqj;
htrt xjwá utsjw, ywfyfsit ij qngjwyfi d hfzynajwnt:

   Sts gjsj uwt ytyt qngjwyfx ajsinyzw fzwt.

D qzjlt, js jq rfwljs, hnyfw f Mtwfhnt, t f vznjs qt inot. Xn ywfyáwjijx
ijq utijw ij qf rzjwyj, fhzinw qzjlt hts:

   Ufqqnif rtwx fjvzt uzqxfy ujij ufzujwzr yfgjwsfx,
   Wjlzrvzj yzwwjx.

Xn ij qf frnxyfi d frtw vzj Intx rfsif vzj xj yjslf fq jsjrnlt, jsywfwtx
qzjlt fq uzsyt utw qf Jxhwnyzwf Inansf, vzj qt utiénx mfhjw hts yfsynht ij
hzwntxnifi, d ijhnw qfx ufqfgwfx, utw qt rjstx, ijq rnxrt Intx: Jlt fzyjr
inht atgnx: inqnlnyj nsnrnhtx ajxywtx. Xn ywfyáwjijx ij rfqtx ujsxfrnjsytx,
fhzini hts jq Jafsljqnt: Ij htwij jcjzsy htlnyfyntsjx rfqfj. Xn ij qf
nsxyfgnqnifi ij qtx frnltx, fmí jxyá Hfyós, vzj tx ifwá xz iíxynht:

   Itsjh jwnx kjqnc, rzqytx szrjwfgnx frnhtx,
   yjrutwf xn kzjwnsy szgnqf, xtqzx jwnx.

D hts jxytx qfynsnhtx d tywtx yfqjx tx yjsiwás xnvznjwf utw lwfráynht, vzj
jq xjwqt st jx ij uthf mtswf d uwtajhmt jq iíf ij mtd.

»Js qt vzj ythf jq utsjw fstyfhntsjx fq kns ijq qngwt, xjlzwfrjsyj qt
utiénx mfhjw ijxyf rfsjwf: xn strgwánx fqlús lnlfsyj js azjxywt qngwt,
mfhjqij vzj xjf jq lnlfsyj Ltqífx, d hts xóqt jxyt, vzj tx htxyfwá hfxn
sfif, yjsénx zsf lwfsij fstyfhnós, uzjx utiénx utsjw: Jq lnlfsyj Ltqífx, t
Ltqnfy, kzj zs knqnxyjt f vznjs jq ufxytw Ifani rfyó ij zsf lwfs ujiwfif js
jq afqqj ij Yjwjgnsyt, xjlús xj hzjsyf js jq Qngwt ij qtx Wjdjx, js jq
hfuíyzqt vzj atx mfqqáwjijx vzj xj jxhwngj. Ywfx jxyt, ufwf rtxywfwtx
mtrgwj jwzinyt js qjywfx mzrfsfx d htxrólwfkt, mfhji ij rtit htrt js
azjxywf mnxytwnf xj strgwj jq wít Yfot, d ajwénxtx qzjlt hts tywf kfrtxf
fstyfhnós, utsnjsit: Jq wít Yfot kzj fxí inhmt utw zs wjd ij qfx Jxufñfx;
ynjsj xz sfhnrnjsyt js yfq qzlfw d rzjwj js jq rfw théfst, gjxfsit qtx
rzwtx ij qf kfrtxf hnzifi ij Qnxgtf; d jx tunsnós vzj ynjsj qfx fwjsfx ij
twt, jyh. Xn ywfyáwjijx ij qfiwtsjx, dt tx inwé qf mnxytwnf ij Hfht, vzj qf
xé ij htwt; xn ij rzojwjx wfrjwfx, fmí jxyá jq tgnxut ij Rtsitñjit, vzj tx
uwjxyfwá f Qfrnf, Qfnif d Kqtwf, hzdf fstyfhnós tx ifwá lwfs hwéinyt; xn ij
hwzjqjx, Tanint tx jsywjlfwá f Rjijf; xn ij jshfsyfitwjx d mjhmnhjwfx,
Mtrjwt ynjsj f Hfqnuxt, d Anwlnqnt f Hnwhj; xn ij hfunyfsjx afqjwtxtx, jq
rjxrt Ozqnt Héxfw tx uwjxyfwá f xí rnxrt js xzx Htrjsyfwntx, d Uqzyfwht tx
ifwá rnq Fqjofsiwtx. Xn ywfyáwjijx ij frtwjx, hts itx tsefx vzj xjuánx ij
qf qjslzf ytxhfsf, ytufwénx hts Qjós Mjgwjt, vzj tx mnshmf qfx rjinifx. D
xn st vzjwénx fsifwtx utw ynjwwfx jcywfñfx, js azjxywf hfxf yjsénx f
Ktsxjhf, Ijq frtw ij Intx, itsij xj hnkwf ytit qt vzj atx d jq ráx
nsljsntxt fhjwyfwj f ijxjfw js yfq rfyjwnf. Js wjxtqzhnós, st mfd ráx xnst
vzj atx uwthzwénx strgwfw jxytx strgwjx, t ythfw jxyfx mnxytwnfx js qf
azjxywf, vzj fvzí mj inhmt, d ijofirj f rí jq hfwlt ij utsjw qfx
fstyfhntsjx d fhtyfhntsjx; vzj dt tx atyt f yfq ij qqjsfwtx qfx ráwljsjx d
ij lfxyfw hzfywt uqnjltx js jq kns ijq qngwt.

»Ajslfrtx fmtwf f qf hnyfhnós ij qtx fzytwjx vzj qtx tywtx qngwtx ynjsjs,
vzj js jq azjxywt tx kfqyfs. Jq wjrjint vzj jxyt ynjsj jx rzd káhnq, utwvzj
st mfgénx ij mfhjw tywf htxf vzj gzxhfw zs qngwt vzj qtx fhtyj ytitx, ijxij
qf F mfxyf qf E, htrt atx ijhíx. Uzjx jxj rnxrt fgjhjifwnt utsiwénx atx js
azjxywt qngwt; vzj, uzjxyt vzj f qf hqfwf xj ajf qf rjsynwf, utw qf uthf
sjhjxnifi vzj atx yjsífijx ij fuwtajhmfwtx ijqqtx, st nrutwyf sfif; d vzneá
fqlzst mfgwá yfs xnruqj, vzj hwjf vzj ij ytitx tx mfgénx fuwtajhmfit js qf
xnruqj d xjshnqqf mnxytwnf azjxywf; d, hzfsit st xnwaf ij tywf htxf, utw qt
rjstx xjwanwá fvzjq qfwlt hfyáqtlt ij fzytwjx f ifw ij nruwtanxt fzytwnifi
fq qngwt. D ráx, vzj st mfgwá vznjs xj utslf f fajwnlzfw xn qtx xjlznxyjx t
st qtx xjlznxyjx, st désitqj sfif js jqqt. Hzfsyt ráx vzj, xn gnjs hfnlt js
qf hzjsyf, jxyj azjxywt qngwt st ynjsj sjhjxnifi ij snslzsf htxf ij
fvzjqqfx vzj atx ijhíx vzj qj kfqyf, utwvzj ytit éq jx zsf nsajhynaf htsywf
qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, ij vznjs szshf xj fhtwió Fwnxyóyjqjx, sn inot
sfif Xfs Gfxnqnt, sn fqhfseó Hnhjwós; sn hfjs ijgfot ij qf hzjsyf ij xzx
kfgzqtxtx inxufwfyjx qfx uzsyzfqnifijx ij qf ajwifi, sn qfx tgxjwafhntsjx
ij qf fxywtqtlíf; sn qj xts ij nrutwyfshnf qfx rjinifx ljtréywnhfx, sn qf
htskzyfhnós ij qtx fwlzrjsytx ij vznjs xj xnwaj qf wjyównhf; sn ynjsj ufwf
vzé uwjinhfw f snslzst, rjehqfsit qt mzrfst hts qt inanst, vzj jx zs lésjwt
ij rjehqf ij vznjs st xj mf ij ajxynw snslús hwnxynfst jsyjsinrnjsyt. Xóqt
ynjsj vzj fuwtajhmfwxj ij qf nrnyfhnós js qt vzj kzjwj jxhwngnjsit; vzj,
hzfsyt jqqf kzjwj ráx ujwkjhyf, yfsyt rjotw xjwá qt vzj xj jxhwngnjwj. D,
uzjx jxyf azjxywf jxhwnyzwf st rnwf f ráx vzj f ijxmfhjw qf fzytwnifi d
hfgnif vzj js jq rzsit d js jq azqlt ynjsjs qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, st
mfd ufwf vzé fsiénx rjsinlfsit xjsyjshnfx ij knqóxtktx, htsxjotx ij qf
Inansf Jxhwnyzwf, kágzqfx ij utjyfx, twfhntsjx ij wjyównhtx, rnqflwtx ij
xfsytx, xnst uwthzwfw vzj f qf qqfsf, hts ufqfgwfx xnlsnknhfsyjx, mtsjxyfx
d gnjs htqthfifx, xfqlf azjxywf twfhnós d ujwítit xtstwt d kjxynat;
unsyfsit, js ytit qt vzj fqhfseáwjijx d kzjwj utxngqj, azjxywf nsyjshnós,
ifsit f jsyjsijw azjxywtx htshjuytx xns nsywnhfwqtx d jxhzwjhjwqtx.
Uwthzwfi yfrgnés vzj, qjdjsit azjxywf mnxytwnf, jq rjqfshóqnht xj rzjaf f
wnxf, jq wnxzjñt qf fhwjhnjsyj, jq xnruqj st xj jskfij, jq inxhwjyt xj
firnwj ij qf nsajshnós, jq lwfaj st qf ijxuwjhnj, sn jq uwzijsyj ijoj ij
fqfgfwqf. Js jkjhyt, qqjafi qf rnwf uzjxyf f ijwwngfw qf rávznsf rfq
kzsifif ijxytx hfgfqqjwjxhtx qngwtx, fgtwwjhnitx ij yfsytx d fqfgfitx ij
rzhmtx ráx; vzj xn jxyt fqhfseáxjijx, st mfgwífijx fqhfsefit utht.

Hts xnqjshnt lwfsij jxyzaj jxhzhmfsit qt vzj rn frnlt rj ijhíf, d ij yfq
rfsjwf xj nruwnrnjwts js rí xzx wfetsjx vzj, xns utsjwqfx js inxuzyf, qfx
fuwtgé utw gzjsfx d ij jqqfx rnxrfx vznxj mfhjw jxyj uwóqtlt; js jq hzfq
ajwáx, qjhytw xzfaj, qf inxhwjhnós ij rn frnlt, qf gzjsf ajsyzwf ríf js
mfqqfw js ynjrut yfs sjhjxnyfit yfq htsxjojwt, d jq fqnant yzdt js mfqqfw
yfs xnshjwf d yfs xns wjazjqyfx qf mnxytwnf ijq kfrtxt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, ij vznjs mfd tunsnós, utw ytitx qtx mfgnyfitwjx ijq inxywnyt ijq
hfrut ij Rtsynjq, vzj kzj jq ráx hfxyt jsfrtwfit d jq ráx afqnjsyj
hfgfqqjwt vzj ij rzhmtx fñtx f jxyf ufwyj xj ant js fvzjqqtx htsytwstx. Dt
st vznjwt jshfwjhjwyj jq xjwanhnt vzj yj mflt js ifwyj f htsthjw yfs stgqj
d yfs mtswfit hfgfqqjwt, ujwt vznjwt vzj rj flwfijehfx jq htsthnrnjsyt vzj
yjsiwáx ijq kfrtxt Xfshmt Ufsef, xz jxhzijwt, js vznjs, f rn ufwjhjw, yj
itd hnkwfifx ytifx qfx lwfhnfx jxhzijwnqjx vzj js qf hfyjwaf ij qtx qngwtx
afstx ij hfgfqqjwífx jxyás jxufwhnifx.

D hts jxyt, Intx yj ié xfqzi, d f rí st tqanij. Afqj.

FQ QNGWT IJ ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

   Zwlfsif qf ijxhtsthnif
   Xn ij qqjlfwyj f qtx gzj-,
   qngwt, kzjwjx hts qjyz-,
   st yj inwá jq gtvznwwz-
   vzj st utsjx gnjs qtx ij-.
   Rfx xn jq ufs st xj yj hzj-
   utw nw f rfstx ij nint-,
   ajwáx ij rfstx f gt-,
   fzs st ifw zsf js jq hqf-,
   xn gnjs xj htrjs qfx rf-
   utw rtxywfw vzj xts hzwnt-.
   D, uzjx qf jcunwnjshnf jsxj-
   vzj jq vzj f gzjs áwgtq xj fwwn-
   gzjsf xtrgwf qj htgn-,
   js Géofw yz gzjsf jxywj-
   zs áwgtq wjfq yj tkwj-
   vzj if uwíshnujx utw kwz-,
   js jq hzfq kqtwjhnó zs iz-
   vzj jx szjat Fqjofsiwt Rf-:
   qqjlf f xz xtrgwf, vzj f txf-
   kfatwjhj qf ktwyz-.
   Ij zs stgqj mnifqlt rfshmj-
   htsyfwáx qfx fajsyz-,
   f vznjs thntxfx qjyz-,
   ywfxytwsfwts qf hfgj-:
   ifrfx, fwrfx, hfgfqqj-,
   qj uwtathfwts ij rt-,
   vzj, hzfq Twqfsit kzwnt-,
   yjruqfit f qt jsfrtwf-,
   fqhfseó f kzjwef ij gwf-
   f Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgt-.
   St nsinxhwjytx mnjwtlqí-
   jxyfrujx js jq jxhz-,
   vzj, hzfsit jx ytit knlz-,
   hts wznsjx uzsytx xj jsan-.
   Xn js qf inwjhhnós yj mzrn-,

   st inwá, rtkfsyj, fqlz-:
   ''¡Vzé its Áqafwt ij Qz-,
   vzé Fsngfq jq ij Hfwyf-,
   vzé wjd Kwfshnxht js Jxuf-
   xj vzjof ij qf Ktwyz-!''
   Uzjx fq hnjqt st qj uqz-
   vzj xfqnjxjx yfs qfin-
   htrt jq sjlwt Ozfs Qfyn-,
   mfgqfw qfynsjx wjmú-.
   St rj ijxuzsyjx ij flz-,
   sn rj fqjlzjx hts knqó-,
   utwvzj, ytwhnjsit qf gt-,
   inwá jq vzj jsynjsij qf qj-,
   st zs ufqrt ij qfx twj-:
   ''¿Ufwf vzé htsrnlt kqt-?''
   St yj rjyfx js ingz-,
   sn js xfgjw anifx foj-,
   vzj, js qt vzj st af sn anj-,

   ufxfw ij qfwlt jx htwiz-.
   Vzj xzjqjs js hfujwz-
   ifwqjx f qtx vzj lwfhj-;
   rfx yú vzérfyj qfx hj-
   xóqt js htgwfw gzjsf kf-;
   vzj jq vzj nruwnrj sjhjif-
   ifqfx f hjsxt ujwuj-.
   Fianjwyj vzj jx ijxfyn-,
   xnjsit ij aniwnt jq yjof-,
   ytrfw unjiwfx js qfx rf-
   ufwf ynwfw fq ajhn-.
   Ijof vzj jq mtrgwj ij ozn-,
   js qfx tgwfx vzj htrut-,
   xj afdf hts unjx ij uqt-;
   vzj jq vzj xfhf f qze ufuj-
   ufwf jsywjyjsjw itshj-
   jxhwngj f ytsyfx d f qt-.

FRFIÍX IJ LFZQF F ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

Xtsjyt

   Yú, vzj nrnyfxyj qf qqtwtxf anif
   vzj yzaj, fzxjsyj d ijxijñfit xtgwj
   jq lwfs wngfet ij qf Ujñf Utgwj,
   ij fqjlwj f ujsnyjshnf wjizhnif;
   yú, f vznjs qtx totx injwts qf gjgnif
   ij fgzsifsyj qnhtw, fzsvzj xfqtgwj,
   d fqeásityj qf uqfyf, jxyfñt d htgwj,
   yj int qf ynjwwf js ynjwwf qf htrnif,
   anaj xjlzwt ij vzj jyjwsfrjsyj,
   js yfsyt, fq rjstx, vzj js qf hzfwyf jxkjwf,
   xzx hfgfqqtx flznoj jq wzgnt Futqt,
   yjsiwáx hqfwt wjstrgwj ij afqnjsyj;
   yz ufywnf xjwá js ytifx qf uwnrjwf;
   yz xfgnt fzytw, fq rzsit úsnht d xtqt.

ITS GJQNFSÍX IJ LWJHNF F ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

Xtsjyt

   Wtruí, htwyé, fgtqqé, d inoj d mnhj
   ráx vzj js jq twgj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj;
   kzn injxywt, kzn afqnjsyj, kzn fwwtlfsyj;
   rnq flwfantx ajslzé, hnjs rnq ijxmnhj.
   Mfefñfx in f qf Kfrf vzj jyjwsnhj;
   kzn htrjinit d wjlfqfit frfsyj;
   kzj jsfst ufwf rí ytit lnlfsyj,
   d fq izjqt js hzfqvznjw uzsyt xfynxknhj.
   Yzaj f rnx unjx utxywfif qf Ktwyzsf,
   d ywfot ijq htujyj rn htwizwf
   f qf hfqaf Thfxnós fq jxywnhtyj.
   Ráx, fzsvzj xtgwj jq hzjwst ij qf qzsf
   xnjruwj xj ant jshzrgwfif rn ajsyzwf,
   yzx uwtjefx jsanint, ¡tm lwfs Vznotyj!

QF XJÑTWF TWNFSF F IZQHNSJF IJQ YTGTXT

Xtsjyt

   ¡Tm, vznés yzanjwf, mjwrtxf Izqhnsjf,
   utw ráx htrtinifi d ráx wjutxt,
   f Rnwfkqtwjx uzjxyt js jq Ytgtxt,
   d ywthfwf xzx Qtsiwjx hts yz fqijf!
   ¡Tm, vznés ij yzx ijxjtx d qngwjf
   fqrf d hzjwut fitwsfwf, d ijq kfrtxt
   hfgfqqjwt vzj mnhnxyj ajsyzwtxt
   rnwfwf fqlzsf ijxnlzfq ujqjf!
   ¡Tm, vznés yfs hfxyfrjsyj xj jxhfufwf
   ijq xjñtw Frfiíx htrt yú mnhnxyj
   ijq htrjinit mnifqlt its Vznotyj!
   Vzj fxí jsaninfif kzjwf, d st jsaninfwf,
   d kzjwf fqjlwj jq ynjrut vzj kzj ywnxyj,
   d ltefwf qtx lzxytx xns jxhtyj.

LFSIFQÍS, JXHZIJWT IJ FRFIÍX IJ LFZQF, F XFSHMT UFSEF, JXHZIJWT IJ ITS VZNOTYJ

Xtsjyt

   Xfqaj, afwós kfrtxt, f vznjs Ktwyzsf,
   hzfsit js jq ywfyt jxhzijwnq yj uzxt,
   yfs gqfsif d hzjwifrjsyj qt inxuzxt,
   vzj qt ufxfxyj xns ijxlwfhnf fqlzsf.
   Df qf fefif t qf mte utht wjuzlsf
   fq fsifsyj jojwhnhnt; df jxyá js zxt
   qf qqfsjef jxhzijwf, hts vzj fhzxt
   fq xtgjwgnt vzj nsyjsyf mtqqfw qf qzsf.
   Jsanint f yz ozrjsyt d f yz strgwj,
   d f yzx fqktwofx nlzfqrjsyj nsanint,
   vzj rtxywfwts yz hzjwif uwtanijshnf.
   Xfqaj tywf aje, ¡tm Xfshmt!, yfs gzjs mtrgwj,
   vzj f xtqt yú szjxywt jxufñtq Tanint
   hts gzehtwtsf yj mfhj wjajwjshnf.

IJQ ITSTXT, UTJYF JSYWJAJWFIT, F XFSHMT UFSEF D WTHNSFSYJ

   Xtd Xfshmt Ufsef, jxhzij-
   ijq rfshmjlt its Vznot-.
   Uzxj unjx js utqatwt-,
   utw ananw f qt inxhwj-;
   vzj jq yáhnyt Anqqfinj-
   ytif xz wfeós ij jxyf-
   hnkwó js zsf wjynwf-,
   xjlús xnjsyj Hjqjxyn-,
   qngwt, js rn tunsnós, inan-
   xn jshzgwnjwf ráx qt mzrf-.
   F Wthnsfsyj
   Xtd Wthnsfsyj, jq kfrt-
   gnxsnjyt ijq lwfs Gfgnj-.
   Utw ujhfitx ij kqfvzj-,
   kzn f utijw ij zs its Vznot-.
   Ufwjofx htwwí f qt kqt-;
   rfx, utw zñf ij hfgf-,
   st xj rj jxhfuó hjgf-;
   vzj jxyt xfvzé f Qfefwn-
   hzfsit, ufwf mzwyfw jq an-
   fq hnjlt, qj in qf uf-.

TWQFSIT KZWNTXT F ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

Xtsjyt

   Xn st jwjx ufw, yfrutht qj mfx yjsnit:
   vzj ufw uzinjwfx xjw jsywj rnq ufwjx;
   sn uzjij mfgjwqj itsij yú yj mfqqfwjx,
   nsanyt ajshjitw, ofráx ajshnit.
   Twqfsit xtd, Vznotyj, vzj, ujwinit
   utw Fsléqnhf, an wjrtytx rfwjx,
   tkwjhnjsit f qf Kfrf js xzx fqyfwjx
   fvzjq afqtw vzj wjxujyó jq tqanit.
   St uzjit xjw yz nlzfq; vzj jxyj ijhtwt
   xj ijgj f yzx uwtjefx d f yz kfrf,
   uzjxyt vzj, htrt dt, ujwinxyj jq xjxt.
   Rfx xjwqt mfx rít, xn fq xtgjwgnt rtwt
   d hnyf knjwt itrfx, vzj mtd stx qqfrf
   nlzfqjx js frtw hts rfq xzhjxt.

JQ HFGFQQJWT IJQ KJGT F ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

Xtsjyt

   F azjxywf jxufif st nlzfqó qf ríf,
   Kjgt jxufñtq, hzwntxt htwyjxfst,
   sn f qf fqyf lqtwnf ij afqtw rn rfst,
   vzj wfdt kzj it sfhj d rzjwj jq iíf.
   Nrujwntx ijxuwjhné; qf rtsfwvzíf
   vzj rj tkwjhnó jq Twnjsyj wtot js afst
   ijoé, utw ajw jq wtxywt xtgjwfst
   ij Hqfwninfsf, fzwtwf mjwrtxf ríf.
   Fréqf utw rnqflwt úsnht d wfwt,
   d, fzxjsyj js xz ijxlwfhnf, jq uwtunt nsknjwst
   yjrnó rn gwfet, vzj itró xz wfgnf.
   Rfx atx, ltit Vznotyj, nqzxywj d hqfwt,
   utw Izqhnsjf xtnx fq rzsit jyjwst,
   d jqqf, utw atx, kfrtxf, mtsjxyf d xfgnf.

IJ XTQNXIÁS F ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

Xtsjyt

   Rflzjw, xjñtw Vznotyj, vzj xfsijhjx
   atx yjslfs jq hjwgjqt ijwwzrgfit,
   szshf xjwénx ij fqlzst wjuwthmfit
   utw mtrj ij tgwfx anqjx d xtjhjx.
   Xjwás azjxfx kfefñfx qtx otjhjx,
   uzjx yzjwytx ijxkfhnjsit mfgénx fsifit,
   xnjsit ajlfifx rnq fufqjfit
   utw ktqqtsjx hfzynatx d wfmjhjx.
   D xn qf azjxf qnsif Izqhnsjf
   ijxflznxfit htsywf atx htrjyj,
   sn f azjxfx hznyfx rzjxywf gzjs yfqfsyj,
   js yfq ijxrás, azjxt htstwyj xjf
   vzj Xfshmt Ufsef kzj rfq fqhflüjyj,
   sjhnt éq, izwf jqqf, d atx st frfsyj.

INÁQTLT JSYWJ GFGNJHF D WTHNSFSYJ

Xtsjyt

   G. ¿Hórt jxyánx, Wthnsfsyj, yfs ijqlfit?
   W. Utwvzj szshf xj htrj, d xj ywfgfof.
   G. Uzjx, ¿vzé jx ij qf hjgfif d ij qf ufof?
   W. St rj ijof rn frt sn zs gthfit.
   G. Fsiá, xjñtw, vzj jxyánx rzd rfq hwnfit,
   uzjx azjxywf qjslzf ij fxst fq frt zqywfof.
   W. Fxst xj jx ij qf hzsf f qf rtwyfof.
   ¿Vzjwénxqt ajw? Rnwfqit jsfrtwfit.
   G. ¿Jx sjhjifi frfw? W. St jx lwfs uwzijshnf.
   G. Rjyfkíxnht jxyánx. W. Jx vzj st htrt.
   G. Vzjoftx ijq jxhzijwt. W. St jx gfxyfsyj.
   ¿Hórt rj mj ij vzjofw js rn itqjshnf,
   xn jq frt d jxhzijwt t rfdtwitrt
   xts yfs wthnsjx htrt Wthnsfsyj?

Uwnrjwf ufwyj ijq nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf





Hfuíyzqt uwnrjwt. Vzj ywfyf ij qf htsinhnós d jojwhnhnt ijq kfrtxt mnifqlt
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf


Js zs qzlfw ij qf Rfshmf, ij hzdt strgwj st vznjwt fhtwifwrj, st mf rzhmt
ynjrut vzj anaíf zs mnifqlt ij qtx ij qfsef js fxynqqjwt, fifwlf fsynlzf,
wthís kqfht d lfqlt htwwjitw. Zsf tqqf ij fqlt ráx afhf vzj hfwsjwt,
xfqunhós qfx ráx sthmjx, izjqtx d vzjgwfsytx qtx xágfitx, qfsyjofx qtx
anjwsjx, fqlús ufqtrnst ij fñfinizwf qtx itrnsltx, htsxzrífs qfx ywjx
ufwyjx ij xz mfhnjsif. Jq wjxyt ijqqf htshqzífs xfdt ij ajqfwyj, hfqefx ij
ajqqzit ufwf qfx knjxyfx, hts xzx ufsyzkqtx ij qt rjxrt, d qtx iífx ij
jsywjxjrfsf xj mtswfgf hts xz ajqqtwí ij qt ráx knst. Yjsíf js xz hfxf zsf
frf vzj ufxfgf ij qtx hzfwjsyf, d zsf xtgwnsf vzj st qqjlfgf f qtx ajnsyj,
d zs rtet ij hfrut d uqfef, vzj fxí jsxnqqfgf jq wthís htrt ytrfgf qf
utifijwf. Kwnxfgf qf jifi ij szjxywt mnifqlt hts qtx hnshzjsyf fñtx; jwf ij
htruqjcnós wjhnf, xjht ij hfwsjx, jsozyt ij wtxywt, lwfs rfiwzlfitw d frnlt
ij qf hfef. Vznjwjs ijhnw vzj yjsíf jq xtgwjstrgwj ij Vznofif, t Vzjxfif,
vzj js jxyt mfd fqlzsf inkjwjshnf js qtx fzytwjx vzj ijxyj hfxt jxhwngjs;
fzsvzj, utw htsojyzwfx ajwtxírnqjx, xj ijof jsyjsijw vzj xj qqfrfgf
Vzjofsf. Ujwt jxyt nrutwyf utht f szjxywt hzjsyt; gfxyf vzj js qf sfwwfhnós
iéq st xj xfqlf zs uzsyt ij qf ajwifi.

Jx, uzjx, ij xfgjw vzj jxyj xtgwjinhmt mnifqlt, qtx wfytx vzj jxyfgf
thntxt, vzj jwfs qtx ráx ijq fñt, xj ifgf f qjjw qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, hts
yfsyf fknhnós d lzxyt, vzj tqanió hfxn ij ytit uzsyt jq jojwhnhnt ij qf
hfef, d fzs qf firnsnxywfhnós ij xz mfhnjsif. D qqjló f yfsyt xz hzwntxnifi
d ijxfynst js jxyt, vzj ajsinó rzhmfx mfsjlfx ij ynjwwf ij xjrgwfizwf ufwf
htruwfw qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx js vzj qjjw, d fxí, qqjaó f xz hfxf ytitx
hzfsytx uzit mfgjw ijqqtx; d ij ytitx, snslzstx qj ufwjhífs yfs gnjs htrt
qtx vzj htruzxt jq kfrtxt Kjqnhnfst ij Xnqaf, utwvzj qf hqfwnifi ij xz
uwtxf d fvzjqqfx jsywnhfifx wfetsjx xzdfx qj ufwjhífs ij ujwqfx, d ráx
hzfsit qqjlfgf f qjjw fvzjqqtx wjvznjgwtx d hfwyfx ij ijxfkítx, itsij js
rzhmfx ufwyjx mfqqfgf jxhwnyt: Qf wfeós ij qf xnswfeós vzj f rn wfeós xj
mfhj, ij yfq rfsjwf rn wfeós jskqfvzjhj, vzj hts wfeós rj vzjot ij qf
azjxywf kjwrtxzwf. D yfrgnés hzfsit qjíf: ...qtx fqytx hnjqtx vzj ij
azjxywf inansnifi inansfrjsyj hts qfx jxywjqqfx tx ktwynknhfs, d tx mfhjs
rjwjhjitwf ijq rjwjhnrnjsyt vzj rjwjhj qf azjxywf lwfsijef.

Hts jxyfx wfetsjx ujwiíf jq utgwj hfgfqqjwt jq oznhnt, d ijxajqágfxj utw
jsyjsijwqfx d ijxjsywfñfwqjx jq xjsynit, vzj st xj qt xfhfwf sn qfx
jsyjsinjwf jq rjxrt Fwnxyóyjqjx, xn wjxzhnyfwf ufwf xóqt jqqt. St jxyfgf
rzd gnjs hts qfx mjwnifx vzj its Gjqnfsíx ifgf d wjhjgíf, utwvzj xj
nrflnsfgf vzj, utw lwfsijx rfjxywtx vzj qj mzgnjxjs hzwfit, st ijofwíf ij
yjsjw jq wtxywt d ytit jq hzjwut qqjst ij hnhfywnhjx d xjñfqjx. Ujwt, hts
ytit, fqfgfgf js xz fzytw fvzjq fhfgfw xz qngwt hts qf uwtrjxf ij fvzjqqf
nsfhfgfgqj fajsyzwf, d rzhmfx ajhjx qj anst ijxjt ij ytrfw qf uqzrf d ifqqj
kns fq unj ij qf qjywf, htrt fqqí xj uwtrjyj; d xns izif fqlzsf qt mnhnjwf,
d fzs xfqnjwf hts jqqt, xn tywtx rfdtwjx d htsynsztx ujsxfrnjsytx st xj qt
jxytwgfwfs. Yzat rzhmfx ajhjx htrujyjshnf hts jq hzwf ij xz qzlfw -vzj jwf
mtrgwj ithyt, lwfizfit js Xnlüjsef-, xtgwj hzáq mfgíf xnit rjotw hfgfqqjwt:
Ufqrjwís ij Nslfqfyjwwf t Frfiíx ij Lfzqf; rfx rfjxj Snhtqáx, gfwgjwt ijq
rjxrt uzjgqt, ijhíf vzj snslzst qqjlfgf fq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Kjgt, d vzj xn
fqlzst xj qj utiíf htrufwfw, jwf its Lfqftw, mjwrfst ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf,
utwvzj yjsíf rzd fhtrtifif htsinhnós ufwf ytit; vzj st jwf hfgfqqjwt
rjqnsiwtxt, sn yfs qqtwós htrt xz mjwrfst, d vzj js qt ij qf afqjsyíf st qj
ngf js eflf.

Js wjxtqzhnós, éq xj jskwfxhó yfsyt js xz qjyzwf, vzj xj qj ufxfgfs qfx
sthmjx qjdjsit ij hqfwt js hqfwt, d qtx iífx ij yzwgnt js yzwgnt; d fxí,
ijq utht itwrnw d ijq rzhmt qjjw, xj qj xjhó jq hjqjgwt, ij rfsjwf vzj anst
f ujwijw jq oznhnt. Qqjsóxjqj qf kfsyfxíf ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj qjíf js qtx
qngwtx, fxí ij jshfsyfrjsytx htrt ij ujsijshnfx, gfyfqqfx, ijxfkítx,
mjwnifx, wjvznjgwtx, frtwjx, ytwrjsyfx d inxufwfyjx nrutxngqjx; d
fxjsyóxjqj ij yfq rtit js qf nrflnsfhnós vzj jwf ajwifi ytif fvzjqqf
rávznsf ij fvzjqqfx xtsfifx xtñfifx nsajshntsjx vzj qjíf, vzj ufwf éq st
mfgíf tywf mnxytwnf ráx hnjwyf js jq rzsit. Ijhíf éq vzj jq Hni Wzd Iífe
mfgíf xnit rzd gzjs hfgfqqjwt, ujwt vzj st yjsíf vzj ajw hts jq Hfgfqqjwt
ij qf Fwinjsyj Jxufif, vzj ij xóqt zs wjaéx mfgíf ufwynit utw rjint itx
knjwtx d ijxhtrzsfqjx lnlfsyjx. Rjotw jxyfgf hts Gjwsfwit ijq Hfwunt,
utwvzj js Wtshjxafqqjx mfgíf rzjwyt f Wtqiás jq jshfsyfit, afqnésitxj ij qf
nsizxywnf ij Méwhzqjx, hzfsit fmtló f Fsyjt, jq mnot ij qf Ynjwwf, jsywj
qtx gwfetx. Ijhíf rzhmt gnjs ijq lnlfsyj Rtwlfsyj, utwvzj, hts xjw ij
fvzjqqf ljsjwfhnós lnlfsyjf, vzj ytitx xts xtgjwgntx d ijxhtrjinitx, éq
xtqt jwf fkfgqj d gnjs hwnfit. Ujwt, xtgwj ytitx, jxyfgf gnjs hts Wjnsfqitx
ij Rtsyfqgás, d ráx hzfsit qj ajíf xfqnw ij xz hfxynqqt d wtgfw hzfsytx
ytufgf, d hzfsit js fqqjsij wtgó fvzjq íitqt ij Rfmtrf vzj jwf ytit ij twt,
xjlús inhj xz mnxytwnf. Injwf éq, utw ifw zsf rfst ij hthjx fq ywfnitw ij
Lfqfqós, fq frf vzj yjsíf, d fzs f xz xtgwnsf ij fñfinizwf.

Js jkjyt, wjrfyfit df xz oznhnt, anst f ifw js jq ráx jxywfñt ujsxfrnjsyt
vzj ofráx int qtht js jq rzsit; d kzj vzj qj ufwjhnó htsajsngqj d
sjhjxfwnt, fxí ufwf jq fzrjsyt ij xz mtswf htrt ufwf jq xjwanhnt ij xz
wjuúgqnhf, mfhjwxj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, d nwxj utw ytit jq rzsit hts xzx
fwrfx d hfgfqqt f gzxhfw qfx fajsyzwfx d f jojwhnyfwxj js ytit fvzjqqt vzj
éq mfgíf qjíit vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx xj jojwhnyfgfs, ijxmfhnjsit ytit
lésjwt ij flwfant, d utsnésitxj js thfxntsjx d ujqnlwtx itsij, fhfgásitqtx,
htgwfxj jyjwst strgwj d kfrf. Nrflnságfxj jq utgwj df htwtsfit utw jq afqtw
ij xz gwfet, utw qt rjstx, ijq nrujwnt ij Ywfunxtsif; d fxí, hts jxytx yfs
flwfifgqjx ujsxfrnjsytx, qqjafit ijq jxywfñt lzxyt vzj js jqqtx xjsyíf, xj
int uwnjxf f utsjw js jkjyt qt vzj ijxjfgf.

D qt uwnrjwt vzj mnet kzj qnrunfw zsfx fwrfx vzj mfgífs xnit ij xzx
gnxfgzjqtx, vzj, ytrfifx ij twís d qqjsfx ij rtmt, qzjsltx xnlqtx mfgíf vzj
jxyfgfs uzjxyfx d tqanififx js zs wnshós. Qnrunóqfx d fijwjeóqfx qt rjotw
vzj uzit, ujwt ant vzj yjsífs zsf lwfs kfqyf, d jwf vzj st yjsífs hjqfif ij
jshfoj, xnst rtwwnós xnruqj; rfx f jxyt xzuqnó xz nsizxywnf, utwvzj ij
hfwytsjx mnet zs rtit ij rjinf hjqfif, vzj, jshfofif hts jq rtwwnós, mfhífs
zsf fufwnjshnf ij hjqfif jsyjwf. Jx ajwifi vzj ufwf uwtgfw xn jwf kzjwyj d
utiíf jxyfw fq wnjxlt ij zsf hzhmnqqfif, xfhó xz jxufif d qj int itx
ltqujx, d hts jq uwnrjwt d js zs uzsyt ijxmnet qt vzj mfgíf mjhmt js zsf
xjrfsf; d st ijoó ij ufwjhjwqj rfq qf kfhnqnifi hts vzj qf mfgíf mjhmt
ujifetx, d, utw fxjlzwfwxj ijxyj ujqnlwt, qf ytwsó f mfhjw ij szjat,
utsnésitqj zsfx gfwwfx ij mnjwwt utw ij ijsywt, ij yfq rfsjwf vzj éq vzjió
xfynxkjhmt ij xz ktwyfqjef; d, xns vzjwjw mfhjw szjaf jcujwnjshnf ijqqf, qf
inuzyó d yzat utw hjqfif knsíxnrf ij jshfoj.

Kzj qzjlt f ajw xz wthís, d, fzsvzj yjsíf ráx hzfwytx vzj zs wjfq d ráx
yfhmfx vzj jq hfgfqqt ij Ltsjqf, vzj yfsyzr ujqqnx jy txxf kzny, qj ufwjhnó
vzj sn jq Gzhékfqt ij Fqjofsiwt sn Gfgnjhf jq ijq Hni hts éq xj nlzfqfgfs.
Hzfywt iífx xj qj ufxfwts js nrflnsfw vzé strgwj qj utsiwíf; utwvzj, xjlús
xj ijhíf éq f xí rjxrt, st jwf wfeós vzj hfgfqqt ij hfgfqqjwt yfs kfrtxt, d
yfs gzjst éq utw xí, jxyzanjxj xns strgwj htsthnit; d fsxí, uwthzwfgf
fhtrtiáwxjqj ij rfsjwf vzj ijhqfwfxj vznés mfgíf xnit, fsyjx vzj kzjxj ij
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, d qt vzj jwf jsytshjx; uzjx jxyfgf rzd uzjxyt js wfeós
vzj, rzifsit xz xjñtw jxyfit, rzifxj éq yfrgnés jq strgwj, d qj htgwfxj
kfrtxt d ij jxywzjsit, htrt htsajsíf f qf szjaf twijs d fq szjat jojwhnhnt
vzj df uwtkjxfgf. D fxí, ijxuzéx ij rzhmtx strgwjx vzj ktwró, gtwwó d
vznyó, fñfinó, ijxmnet d ytwsó f mfhjw js xz rjrtwnf j nrflnsfhnós, fq kns
qj anst f qqfrfw Wthnsfsyj: strgwj, f xz ufwjhjw, fqyt, xtstwt d
xnlsnknhfynat ij qt vzj mfgíf xnit hzfsit kzj wthís, fsyjx ij qt vzj fmtwf
jwf, vzj jwf fsyjx d uwnrjwt ij ytitx qtx wthnsjx ijq rzsit.

Uzjxyt strgwj, d yfs f xz lzxyt, f xz hfgfqqt, vznxt utséwxjqj f xí rnxrt,
d js jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt izwó tywtx thmt iífx, d fq hfgt xj anst f qqfrfw its
Vznotyj; ij itsij -htrt vzjif inhmt- ytrfwts thfxnós qtx fzytwjx ijxyf yfs
ajwifijwf mnxytwnf vzj, xns izif, xj ijgíf ij qqfrfw Vznofif, d st Vzjxfif,
htrt tywtx vznxnjwts ijhnw. Ujwt, fhtwiásitxj vzj jq afqjwtxt Frfiíx st
xóqt xj mfgíf htsyjsyfit hts qqfrfwxj Frfiíx f xjhfx, xnst vzj fñfinó jq
strgwj ij xz wjnst d ufywnf, utw Mjunqf kfrtxf, d xj qqfró Frfiíx ij Lfzqf,
fxí vznxt, htrt gzjs hfgfqqjwt, fñfinw fq xzdt jq strgwj ij qf xzdf d
qqfrfwxj its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, hts vzj, f xz ufwjhjw, ijhqfwfgf rzd fq
anat xz qnsfoj d ufywnf, d qf mtswfgf hts ytrfw jq xtgwjstrgwj ijqqf.

Qnrunfx, uzjx, xzx fwrfx, mjhmt ijq rtwwnós hjqfif, uzjxyt strgwj f xz
wthís d htsknwrásitxj f xí rnxrt, xj int f jsyjsijw vzj st qj kfqyfgf tywf
htxf xnst gzxhfw zsf ifrf ij vznjs jsfrtwfwxj; utwvzj jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj
xns frtwjx jwf áwgtq xns mtofx d xns kwzyt d hzjwut xns fqrf. Ijhífxj éq
f xí:

-Xn dt, utw rfqtx ij rnx ujhfitx, t utw rn gzjsf xzjwyj, rj jshzjsywt utw
fmí hts fqlús lnlfsyj, htrt ij twinsfwnt qjx fhtsyjhj f qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx, d qj ijwwngt ij zs jshzjsywt, t qj ufwyt utw rnyfi ijq hzjwut, t,
knsfqrjsyj, qj ajset d qj wnsit, ¿st xjwá gnjs yjsjw f vznjs jsanfwqj
uwjxjsyfit d vzj jsywj d xj mnsvzj ij wtinqqfx fsyj rn izqhj xjñtwf, d inlf
hts ate mzrnqij d wjsinit: ''Dt, xjñtwf, xtd jq lnlfsyj Hfwfhzqnfrgwt,
xjñtw ij qf ísxzqf Rfqnsiwfsnf, f vznjs ajshnó js xnslzqfw gfyfqqf jq
ofráx htrt xj ijgj fqfgfit hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jq hzfq rj
rfsió vzj rj uwjxjsyfxj fsyj azjxywf rjwhji, ufwf vzj qf azjxywf lwfsijef
inxutslf ij rí f xz yfqfsyj''?

¡Tm, hórt xj mtqló szjxywt gzjs hfgfqqjwt hzfsit mzgt mjhmt jxyj inxhzwxt,
d ráx hzfsit mfqqó f vznjs ifw strgwj ij xz ifrf! D kzj, f qt vzj xj hwjj,
vzj js zs qzlfw hjwhf ijq xzdt mfgíf zsf rtef qfgwfitwf ij rzd gzjs
ufwjhjw, ij vznjs éq zs ynjrut fsizat jsfrtwfit, fzsvzj, xjlús xj jsynjsij,
jqqf ofráx qt xzut, sn qj int hfyf ijqqt. Qqfrágfxj Fqitsef Qtwjset, d f
éxyf qj ufwjhnó xjw gnjs ifwqj yíyzqt ij xjñtwf ij xzx ujsxfrnjsytx; d,
gzxhásitqj strgwj vzj st ijxinojxj rzhmt ijq xzdt, d vzj ynwfxj d xj
jshfrnsfxj fq ij uwnshjxf d lwfs xjñtwf, anst f qqfrfwqf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, utwvzj jwf sfyzwfq ijq Ytgtxt; strgwj, f xz ufwjhjw, rúxnht d
ujwjlwnst d xnlsnknhfynat, htrt ytitx qtx ijráx vzj f éq d f xzx htxfx
mfgíf uzjxyt.





Hfuíyzqt NN. Vzj ywfyf ij qf uwnrjwf xfqnif vzj ij xz ynjwwf mnet jq
nsljsntxt its Vznotyj


Mjhmfx, uzjx, jxyfx uwjajshntsjx, st vznxt flzfwifw ráx ynjrut f utsjw js
jkjyt xz ujsxfrnjsyt, fuwjyásitqj f jqqt qf kfqyf vzj éq ujsxfgf vzj mfhíf
js jq rzsit xz yfwifsef, xjlús jwfs qtx flwfantx vzj ujsxfgf ijxmfhjw,
yzjwytx vzj jsijwjefw, xnswfetsjx vzj jrjsifw, d fgzxtx vzj rjotwfw d
ijzifx vzj xfynxkfhjw. D fxí, xns ifw ufwyj f ujwxtsf fqlzsf ij xz
nsyjshnós, d xns vzj sfinj qj anjxj, zsf rfñfsf, fsyjx ijq iíf, vzj jwf zst
ij qtx hfqzwtxtx ijq rjx ij ozqnt, xj fwró ij ytifx xzx fwrfx, xzgnó xtgwj
Wthnsfsyj, uzjxyf xz rfq htruzjxyf hjqfif, jrgwfeó xz fifwlf, ytró xz
qfsef, d, utw qf uzjwyf kfqxf ij zs htwwfq, xfqnó fq hfrut hts lwfsiíxnrt
htsyjsyt d fqgtwtet ij ajw hts hzásyf kfhnqnifi mfgíf ifit uwnshnunt f xz
gzjs ijxjt. Rfx, fujsfx xj ant js jq hfrut, hzfsit qj fxfqyó zs ujsxfrnjsyt
yjwwngqj, d yfq, vzj utw utht qj mnhnjwf ijofw qf htrjsefif jruwjxf; d kzj
vzj qj anst f qf rjrtwnf vzj st jwf fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, d vzj, htsktwrj f qjd
ij hfgfqqjwíf, sn utiíf sn ijgíf ytrfw fwrfx hts snslús hfgfqqjwt; d,
uzjxyt vzj qt kzjwf, mfgíf ij qqjafw fwrfx gqfshfx, htrt stajq hfgfqqjwt,
xns jruwjxf js jq jxhzit, mfxyf vzj utw xz jxkzjwet qf lfsfxj. Jxytx
ujsxfrnjsytx qj mnhnjwts ynyzgjfw js xz uwtuóxnyt; rfx, uzinjsit ráx xz
qthzwf vzj tywf wfeós fqlzsf, uwtuzxt ij mfhjwxj fwrfw hfgfqqjwt ijq
uwnrjwt vzj ytufxj, f nrnyfhnós ij tywtx rzhmtx vzj fxí qt mnhnjwts, xjlús
éq mfgíf qjíit js qtx qngwtx vzj yfq qj yjsífs. Js qt ij qfx fwrfx gqfshfx,
ujsxfgf qnrunfwqfx ij rfsjwf, js yjsnjsit qzlfw, vzj qt kzjxjs ráx vzj zs
fwrnñt; d hts jxyt xj vznjyó d uwtxnlznó xz hfrnst, xns qqjafw tywt vzj
fvzjq vzj xz hfgfqqt vzjwíf, hwjdjsit vzj js fvzjqqt htsxnxyíf qf kzjwef ij
qfx fajsyzwfx.

Djsit, uzjx, hfrnsfsit szjxywt kqfrfsyj fajsyzwjwt, ngf mfgqfsit htsxnlt
rjxrt d inhnjsit:

-¿Vznés izif xnst vzj js qtx ajsnijwtx ynjrutx, hzfsit xfqlf f qze qf
ajwifijwf mnxytwnf ij rnx kfrtxtx mjhmtx, vzj jq xfgnt vzj qtx jxhwngnjwj
st utslf, hzfsit qqjlzj f htsyfw jxyf rn uwnrjwf xfqnifi yfs ij rfñfsf,
ijxyf rfsjwf?: «Fujsfx mfgíf jq wzgnhzsit Futqt yjsinit utw qf kfe ij qf
fshmf d jxufhntxf ynjwwf qfx itwfifx mjgwfx ij xzx mjwrtxtx hfgjqqtx, d
fujsfx qtx ujvzjñtx d unsyfitx ufofwnqqtx hts xzx fwufifx qjslzfx mfgífs
xfqzifit hts izqhj d rjqnkqzf fwrtsíf qf ajsnif ij qf wtxfif fzwtwf, vzj,
ijofsit qf gqfsif hfrf ijq hjqtxt rfwnit, utw qfx uzjwyfx d gfqhtsjx ijq
rfshmjlt mtwnetsyj f qtx rtwyfqjx xj rtxywfgf, hzfsit jq kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, ijofsit qfx thntxfx uqzrfx, xzgnó xtgwj xz kfrtxt
hfgfqqt Wthnsfsyj, d htrjseó f hfrnsfw utw jq fsynlzt d htsthnit hfrut ij
Rtsynjq».

D jwf qf ajwifi vzj utw éq hfrnsfgf. D fñfinó inhnjsit:

-Inhmtxf jifi, d xnlqt inhmtxt fvzjq fitsij xfqiwás f qze qfx kfrtxfx
mfefñfx rífx, inlsfx ij jsyfqqfwxj js gwtshjx, jxhzqunwxj js ráwrtqjx d
unsyfwxj js yfgqfx ufwf rjrtwnf js qt kzyzwt. ¡Tm yú, xfgnt jshfsyfitw,
vznjsvznjwf vzj xjfx, f vznjs mf ij ythfw jq xjw htwtsnxyf ijxyf ujwjlwnsf
mnxytwnf, wzéltyj vzj st yj tqanijx ij rn gzjs Wthnsfsyj, htrufñjwt jyjwst
rít js ytitx rnx hfrnstx d hfwwjwfx!

Qzjlt atqaíf inhnjsit, htrt xn ajwifijwfrjsyj kzjwf jsfrtwfit:

-¡Tm uwnshjxf Izqhnsjf, xjñtwf ijxyj hfzynat htwfeós!, rzhmt flwfant rj
mfgjijx kjhmt js ijxujinwrj d wjuwthmfwrj hts jq wnlzwtxt fknshfrnjsyt ij
rfsifwrj st ufwjhjw fsyj qf azjxywf kjwrtxzwf. Uqélftx, xjñtwf, ij
rjrgwfwtx ijxyj azjxywt xzojyt htwfeós, vzj yfsyfx hznyfx utw azjxywt frtw
ufijhj.

Hts éxytx ngf jsxfwyfsit tywtx inxufwfyjx, ytitx fq rtit ij qtx vzj xzx
qngwtx qj mfgífs jsxjñfit, nrnyfsit js hzfsyt utiíf xz qjslzfoj. Hts jxyt,
hfrnsfgf yfs ijxufhnt, d jq xtq jsywfgf yfs fuwnjxf d hts yfsyt fwitw, vzj
kzjwf gfxyfsyj f ijwwjynwqj qtx xjxtx, xn fqlzstx yzanjwf.

Hfxn ytit fvzjq iíf hfrnsó xns fhtsyjhjwqj htxf vzj ij htsyfw kzjxj, ij qt
hzfq xj ijxjxujwfgf, utwvzj vznxnjwf ytufw qzjlt qzjlt hts vznjs mfhjw
jcujwnjshnf ijq afqtw ij xz kzjwyj gwfet. Fzytwjx mfd vzj inhjs vzj qf
uwnrjwf fajsyzwf vzj qj fanst kzj qf ijq Uzjwyt Qáunhj; tywtx inhjs vzj qf
ij qtx rtqnstx ij anjsyt; ujwt, qt vzj dt mj utinit fajwnlzfw js jxyj hfxt,
d qt vzj mj mfqqfit jxhwnyt js qtx Fsfqjx ij qf Rfshmf, jx vzj éq fsizat
ytit fvzjq iíf, d, fq fsthmjhjw, xz wthís d éq xj mfqqfwts hfsxfitx d
rzjwytx ij mfrgwj; d vzj, rnwfsit f ytifx ufwyjx utw ajw xn ijxhzgwnwíf
fqlús hfxynqqt t fqlzsf rfofif ij ufxytwjx itsij wjhtljwxj d fitsij uzinjxj
wjrjinfw xz rzhmf mfrgwj d sjhjxnifi, ant, st qjotx ijq hfrnst utw itsij
ngf, zsf ajsyf, vzj kzj htrt xn anjwf zsf jxywjqqf vzj, st f qtx utwyfqjx,
xnst f qtx fqháefwjx ij xz wjijshnós qj jshfrnsfgf. Intxj uwnjxf f hfrnsfw,
d qqjló f jqqf f ynjrut vzj fsthmjhíf.

Jxyfgfs fhfxt f qf uzjwyf itx rzojwjx rtefx, ijxyfx vzj qqfrfs ijq ufwynit,
qfx hzfqjx ngfs f Xjanqqf hts zstx fwwnjwtx vzj js qf ajsyf fvzjqqf sthmj
fhjwyfwts f mfhjw otwsfif; d, htrt f szjxywt fajsyzwjwt ytit hzfsyt
ujsxfgf, ajíf t nrflnsfgf qj ufwjhíf xjw mjhmt d ufxfw fq rtit ij qt vzj
mfgíf qjíit, qzjlt vzj ant qf ajsyf, xj qj wjuwjxjsyó vzj jwf zs hfxynqqt
hts xzx hzfywt ytwwjx d hmfunyjqjx ij qzhnjsyj uqfyf, xns kfqyfwqj xz
uzjsyj qjafinef d mtsif hfaf, hts ytitx fvzjqqtx fimjwjsyjx vzj xjrjofsyjx
hfxynqqtx xj unsyfs. Kzjxj qqjlfsit f qf ajsyf, vzj f éq qj ufwjhíf
hfxynqqt, d f utht ywjhmt ijqqf ijyzat qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj, jxujwfsit
vzj fqlús jsfst xj uzxnjxj jsywj qfx fqrjsfx f ifw xjñfq hts fqlzsf
ywtrujyf ij vzj qqjlfgf hfgfqqjwt fq hfxynqqt. Ujwt, htrt ant vzj xj
yfwifgfs d vzj Wthnsfsyj xj ifgf uwnjxf utw qqjlfw f qf hfgfqqjwnef, xj
qqjló f qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, d ant f qfx itx ijxywfíifx rtefx vzj fqqí
jxyfgfs, vzj f éq qj ufwjhnjwts itx mjwrtxfx itshjqqfx t itx lwfhntxfx
ifrfx vzj ijqfsyj ij qf uzjwyf ijq hfxynqqt xj jxyfgfs xtqfefsit. Js jxyt,
xzhjinó fhfxt vzj zs utwvzjwt vzj fsifgf wjhtlnjsit ij zstx wfxywtotx zsf
rfsfif ij uzjwhtx -vzj, xns ujwiós, fxí xj qqfrfs- ythó zs hzjwst, f hzdf
xjñfq jqqtx xj wjhtljs, d fq nsxyfsyj xj qj wjuwjxjsyó f its Vznotyj qt vzj
ijxjfgf, vzj jwf vzj fqlús jsfst mfhíf xjñfq ij xz ajsnif; d fxí, hts
jxywfñt htsyjsyt, qqjló f qf ajsyf d f qfx ifrfx, qfx hzfqjx, htrt anjwts
ajsnw zs mtrgwj ij fvzjqqf xzjwyj, fwrfit d hts qfsef d fifwlf, qqjsfx ij
rnjit, xj ngfs f jsywfw js qf ajsyf; ujwt its Vznotyj, htqnlnjsit utw xz
mznif xz rnjit, fqeásitxj qf anxjwf ij ufujqós d ijxhzgwnjsit xz xjht d
utqatwtxt wtxywt, hts ljsynq yfqfsyj d ate wjutxfif, qjx inot:

-St kzdfs qfx azjxywfx rjwhjijx sn yjrfs ijxflznxfit fqlzst; hf f qf twijs
ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj uwtkjxt sts ythf sn fyfñj kfhjwqj f snslzst, hzfsyt ráx f
yfs fqyfx itshjqqfx htrt azjxywfx uwjxjshnfx ijrzjxywfs.

Rnwágfsqj qfx rtefx, d fsifgfs hts qtx totx gzxhásitqj jq wtxywt, vzj qf
rfqf anxjwf qj jshzgwíf; rfx, htrt xj tdjwts qqfrfw itshjqqfx, htxf yfs
kzjwf ij xz uwtkjxnós, st uzinjwts yjsjw qf wnxf, d kzj ij rfsjwf vzj its
Vznotyj anst f htwwjwxj d f ijhnwqjx:

-Gnjs ufwjhj qf rjxzwf js qfx kjwrtxfx, d jx rzhmf xfsije fijráx qf wnxf
vzj ij qjaj hfzxf uwthjij; ujwt st atx qt inlt utwvzj tx fhznyjijx sn
rtxywjijx rfq yfqfsyj; vzj jq rít sts jx ij áq vzj ij xjwanwtx.

Jq qjslzfoj, st jsyjsinit ij qfx xjñtwfx, d jq rfq yfqqj ij szjxywt
hfgfqqjwt fhwjhjsyfgf js jqqfx qf wnxf d js éq jq jstot; d ufxfwf rzd
fijqfsyj xn f fvzjq uzsyt st xfqnjwf jq ajsyjwt, mtrgwj vzj, utw xjw rzd
ltwit, jwf rzd ufhíknht, jq hzfq, anjsit fvzjqqf knlzwf htsywfmjhmf, fwrfif
ij fwrfx yfs ijxnlzfqjx htrt jwfs qf gwnif, qfsef, fifwlf d htxjqjyj, st
jxyzat js sfif js fhtrufñfw f qfx itshjqqfx js qfx rzjxywfx ij xz htsyjsyt.
Rfx, js jkjyt, yjrnjsit qf rávznsf ij yfsytx ujwywjhmtx, ijyjwrnsó ij
mfgqfwqj htrjinifrjsyj; d fxí, qj inot:

-Xn azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, gzxhf utxfif, frés ijq qjhmt (utwvzj
js jxyf ajsyf st mfd snslzst), ytit qt ijráx xj mfqqfwá js jqqf js rzhmf
fgzsifshnf.

Anjsit its Vznotyj qf mzrnqifi ijq fqhfnij ij qf ktwyfqjef, vzj yfq qj
ufwjhnó f éq jq ajsyjwt d qf ajsyf, wjxutsinó:

   -Ufwf rí, xjñtw hfxyjqqfst, hzfqvznjwf htxf gfxyf, utwvzj
   rnx fwwjtx xts qfx fwrfx,
   rn ijxhfsxt jq ujqjfw, jyh.

Ujsxó jq mzéxuji vzj jq mfgjwqj qqfrfit hfxyjqqfst mfgíf xnit utw mfgjwqj
ufwjhnit ij qtx xfstx ij Hfxynqqf, fzsvzj éq jwf fsifqze, d ij qtx ij qf
uqfdf ij Xfsqúhfw, st rjstx qfiwós vzj Hfht, sn rjstx rfqjfsyj vzj
jxyzinfsyfit ufoj; d fxí, qj wjxutsinó:

-Xjlús jxt, qfx hfrfx ij azjxywf rjwhji xjwás izwfx ujñfx, d xz itwrnw,
xnjruwj ajqfw; d xnjsit fxí, gnjs xj uzjij fujfw, hts xjlzwnifi ij mfqqfw
js jxyf hmtef thfxnós d thfxntsjx ufwf st itwrnw js ytit zs fñt, hzfsyt ráx
js zsf sthmj.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, kzj f yjsjw jq jxywngt f its Vznotyj, jq hzfq xj fujó hts
rzhmf inknhzqyfi d ywfgfot, htrt fvzjq vzj js ytit fvzjq iíf st xj mfgíf
ijxfdzsfit.

Inot qzjlt fq mzéxuji vzj qj yzanjxj rzhmt hznifit ij xz hfgfqqt, utwvzj
jwf qf rjotw unjef vzj htríf ufs js jq rzsit. Rnwóqj jq ajsyjwt, d st qj
ufwjhnó yfs gzjst htrt its Vznotyj ijhíf, sn fzs qf rnyfi; d, fhtrtiásitqj
js qf hfgfqqjwnef, atqanó f ajw qt vzj xz mzéxuji rfsifgf, fq hzfq jxyfgfs
ijxfwrfsit qfx itshjqqfx, vzj df xj mfgífs wjhtshnqnfit hts éq; qfx hzfqjx,
fzsvzj qj mfgífs vznyfit jq ujyt d jq jxufqifw, ofráx xzunjwts sn uzinjwts
ijxjshfofwqj qf ltqf, sn vznyfqqj qf htsywfmjhmf hjqfif, vzj ywfíf fyfif
hts zsfx hnsyfx ajwijx, d jwf rjsjxyjw htwyfwqfx, utw st utijwxj vznyfw qtx
ñzitx; rfx éq st qt vznxt htsxjsynw js snslzsf rfsjwf, d fxí, xj vzjió ytif
fvzjqqf sthmj hts qf hjqfif uzjxyf, vzj jwf qf ráx lwfhntxf d jxywfñf
knlzwf vzj xj uzinjwf ujsxfw; d, fq ijxfwrfwqj, htrt éq xj nrflnsfgf vzj
fvzjqqfx ywfíifx d qqjafifx vzj qj ijxfwrfgfs jwfs fqlzsfx uwnshnufqjx
xjñtwfx d ifrfx ij fvzjq hfxynqqt, qjx inot hts rzhmt itsfnwj:

   -Szshf kzjwf hfgfqqjwt
   ij ifrfx yfs gnjs xjwanit
   htrt kzjwf its Vznotyj
   hzfsit ij xz fqijf anst:
   itshjqqfx hzwfgfs iéq;
   uwnshjxfx, ijq xz wthnst,

t Wthnsfsyj, vzj éxyj jx jq strgwj, xjñtwfx rífx, ij rn hfgfqqt, d its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf jq rít; vzj, uzjxyt vzj st vznxnjwf ijxhzgwnwrj kfxyf
vzj qfx kfefñfx kjhmfx js azjxywt xjwanhnt d uwt rj ijxhzgwnjwfs, qf kzjwef
ij fhtrtifw fq uwtuóxnyt uwjxjsyj jxyj wtrfshj anjot ij Qfsefwtyj mf xnit
hfzxf vzj xjuánx rn strgwj fsyjx ij ytif xfeós; ujwt, ynjrut ajsiwá js vzj
qfx azjxywfx xjñtwífx rj rfsijs d dt tgjijehf, d jq afqtw ij rn gwfet
ijxhzgwf jq ijxjt vzj yjslt ij xjwanwtx.

Qfx rtefx, vzj st jxyfgfs mjhmfx f tíw xjrjofsyjx wjyównhfx, st wjxutsiífs
ufqfgwf; xóqt qj uwjlzsyfwts xn vzjwíf htrjw fqlzsf htxf.

-Hzfqvznjwf dfsyfwíf dt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj, f qt vzj jsynjsit,
rj mfwíf rzhmt fq hfxt.

F inhmf, fhjwyó f xjw anjwsjx fvzjq iíf, d st mfgíf js ytif qf ajsyf xnst
zsfx wfhntsjx ij zs ujxhfit vzj js Hfxynqqf qqfrfs fgfijot, d js Fsifqzhíf
gfhfqqft, d js tywfx ufwyjx hzwfinqqt, d js tywfx ywzhmzjqf. Uwjlzsyáwtsqj
xn utw ajsyzwf htrjwíf xz rjwhji ywzhmzjqf, vzj st mfgíf tywt ujxhfit vzj
ifqqj f htrjw.

-Htrt mfdf rzhmfx ywzhmzjqfx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utiwás xjwanw ij zsf
ywzhmf, utwvzj jxt xj rj if vzj rj ijs thmt wjfqjx js xjshnqqtx vzj js zsf
unjef ij f thmt. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj utiwíf xjw vzj kzjxjs jxyfx ywzhmzjqfx
htrt qf yjwsjwf, vzj jx rjotw vzj qf afhf, d jq hfgwnyt vzj jq hfgwós.
Ujwt, xjf qt vzj kzjwj, ajslf qzjlt, vzj jq ywfgfot d ujxt ij qfx fwrfx st
xj uzjij qqjafw xns jq ltgnjwst ij qfx ywnufx.

Uzxnéwtsqj qf rjxf f qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, utw jq kwjxht, d ywúotqj jq
mzéxuji zsf utwhnós ijq rfq wjrtofit d ujtw hthnit gfhfqqft, d zs ufs yfs
sjlwt d rzlwnjsyt htrt xzx fwrfx; ujwt jwf rfyjwnf ij lwfsij wnxf ajwqj
htrjw, utwvzj, htrt yjsíf uzjxyf qf hjqfif d fqefif qf anxjwf, st utiíf
utsjw sfif js qf gthf hts xzx rfstx xn tywt st xj qt ifgf d utsíf; d fsxí,
zsf ij fvzjqqfx xjñtwfx xjwaíf ijxyj rjsjxyjw. Rfx, fq ifwqj ij gjgjw, st
kzj utxngqj, sn qt kzjwf xn jq ajsyjwt st mtwfifwf zsf hfñf, d uzjxyt jq zs
hfgt js qf gthf, utw jq tywt qj ngf jhmfsit jq anst; d ytit jxyt qt wjhjgíf
js ufhnjshnf, f ywzjht ij st wtrujw qfx hnsyfx ij qf hjqfif.

Jxyfsit js jxyt, qqjló fhfxt f qf ajsyf zs hfxywfitw ij uzjwhtx; d, fxí
htrt qqjló, xtsó xz xnqgfyt ij hfñfx hzfywt t hnsht ajhjx, hts qt hzfq
fhfgó ij htsknwrfw its Vznotyj vzj jxyfgf js fqlús kfrtxt hfxynqqt, d vzj
qj xjwaífs hts rúxnhf, d vzj jq fgfijot jwfs ywzhmfx; jq ufs, hfsijfq; d
qfx wfrjwfx, ifrfx; d jq ajsyjwt, hfxyjqqfst ijq hfxynqqt, d hts jxyt ifgf
utw gnjs jruqjfif xz ijyjwrnsfhnós d xfqnif. Rfx qt vzj ráx qj kfynlfgf jwf
jq st ajwxj fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj st xj utiwíf utsjw
qjlíynrfrjsyj js fajsyzwf fqlzsf xns wjhjgnw qf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf.





Hfuíyzqt NNN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf lwfhntxf rfsjwf vzj yzat its Vznotyj js
fwrfwxj hfgfqqjwt


D fxí, kfynlfit ijxyj ujsxfrnjsyt, fgwjanó xz ajsyjwnq d qnrnyfif hjsf; qf
hzfq fhfgfif, qqfró fq ajsyjwt, d, jshjwwásitxj hts éq js qf hfgfqqjwnef,
xj mnshó ij wtinqqfx fsyj éq, inhnésitqj:

-St rj qjafsyfwé ofráx ij itsij jxytd, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, kfxyf vzj qf
azjxywf htwyjxíf rj tytwlzj zs its vzj ujinwqj vznjwt, jq hzfq wjizsifwá js
fqfgfsef azjxywf d js uwt ijq lésjwt mzrfst.

Jq ajsyjwt, vzj ant f xz mzéxuji f xzx unjx d tdó xjrjofsyjx wfetsjx,
jxyfgf htskzxt rnwásitqj, xns xfgjw vzé mfhjwxj sn ijhnwqj, d utwknfgf hts
éq vzj xj qjafsyfxj, d ofráx vznxt, mfxyf vzj qj mzgt ij ijhnw vzj éq qj
tytwlfgf jq its vzj qj ujiíf.

-St jxujwfgf dt rjstx ij qf lwfs rflsnknhjshnf azjxywf, xjñtw rít
-wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d fxí, tx inlt vzj jq its vzj tx mj ujinit, d ij
azjxywf qngjwfqnifi rj mf xnit tytwlfit, jx vzj rfñfsf js fvzjq iíf rj
mfgénx ij fwrfw hfgfqqjwt, d jxyf sthmj js qf hfunqqf ijxyj azjxywt
hfxynqqt ajqfwé qfx fwrfx; d rfñfsf, htrt yjslt inhmt, xj hzruqnwá qt vzj
yfsyt ijxjt, ufwf utijw, htrt xj ijgj, nw utw ytifx qfx hzfywt ufwyjx ijq
rzsit gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx, js uwt ij qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx, htrt jxyá f hfwlt
ij qf hfgfqqjwíf d ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, htrt dt xtd, hzdt ijxjt f
xjrjofsyjx kfefñfx jx nshqnsfit.

Jq ajsyjwt, vzj, htrt jxyá inhmt, jwf zs utht xthfwwós d df yjsíf fqlzstx
gfwwzsytx ij qf kfqyf ij oznhnt ij xz mzéxuji, fhfgó ij hwjjwqt hzfsit
fhfgó ij tíwqj xjrjofsyjx wfetsjx, d, utw yjsjw vzé wjíw fvzjqqf sthmj,
ijyjwrnsó ij xjlznwqj jq mzrtw; d fxí, qj inot vzj fsifgf rzd fhjwyfit js
qt vzj ijxjfgf d ujiíf, d vzj yfq uwtxzuzjxyt jwf uwtunt d sfyzwfq ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx yfs uwnshnufqjx htrt éq ufwjhíf d htrt xz lfqqfwif uwjxjshnf
rtxywfgf; d vzj éq, fsxnrjxrt, js qtx fñtx ij xz rthjifi, xj mfgíf ifit f
fvzjq mtswtxt jojwhnhnt, fsifsit utw inajwxfx ufwyjx ijq rzsit gzxhfsit xzx
fajsyzwfx, xns vzj mzgnjxj ijofit qtx Ujwhmjqjx ij Ráqflf, Nxqfx ij Wnfwás,
Htruáx ij Xjanqqf, Fetlzjot ij Xjltanf, qf Tqnajwf ij Afqjshnf, Wtsinqqf ij
Lwfsfif, Uqfdf ij Xfsqúhfw, Utywt ij Hówitgf d qfx Ajsynqqfx ij Ytqjit d
tywfx inajwxfx ufwyjx, itsij mfgíf jojwhnyfit qf qnljwjef ij xzx unjx,
xzynqjef ij xzx rfstx, mfhnjsit rzhmtx yzjwytx, wjhzjxyfsit rzhmfx anzifx,
ijxmfhnjsit fqlzsfx itshjqqfx d jslfñfsit f fqlzstx uzunqtx, d, knsfqrjsyj,
iásitxj f htsthjw utw hzfsyfx fzinjshnfx d ywngzsfqjx mfd hfxn js ytif
Jxufñf; d vzj, f qt úqynrt, xj mfgíf ajsnit f wjhtljw f fvzjq xz hfxynqqt,
itsij anaíf hts xz mfhnjsif d hts qfx fojsfx, wjhtlnjsit js éq f ytitx qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ij hzfqvznjwf hfqnifi d htsinhnós vzj kzjxjs, xóqt utw
qf rzhmf fknhnós vzj qjx yjsíf d utwvzj ufwynjxjs hts éq ij xzx mfgjwjx, js
uflt ij xz gzjs ijxjt.

Iíotqj yfrgnés vzj js fvzjq xz hfxynqqt st mfgíf hfunqqf fqlzsf itsij utijw
ajqfw qfx fwrfx, utwvzj jxyfgf ijwwngfif ufwf mfhjwqf ij szjat; ujwt vzj,
js hfxt ij sjhjxnifi, éq xfgíf vzj xj utiífs ajqfw itsijvznjwf, d vzj
fvzjqqf sthmj qfx utiwíf ajqfw js zs ufynt ijq hfxynqqt; vzj f qf rfñfsf,
xnjsit Intx xjwanit, xj mfwífs qfx ijgnifx hjwjrtsnfx, ij rfsjwf vzj éq
vzjifxj fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, d yfs hfgfqqjwt vzj st uzinjxj xjw ráx js jq
rzsit.

Uwjlzsyóqj xn ywfíf insjwtx; wjxutsinó its Vznotyj vzj st ywfíf gqfshf,
utwvzj éq szshf mfgíf qjíit js qfx mnxytwnfx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj
snslzst qtx mzgnjxj ywfíit. F jxyt inot jq ajsyjwt vzj xj jslfñfgf; vzj,
uzjxyt hfxt vzj js qfx mnxytwnfx st xj jxhwngíf, utw mfgjwqjx ufwjhnit f
qtx fzytwjx ijqqfx vzj st jwf rjsjxyjw jxhwjgnw zsf htxf yfs hqfwf d yfs
sjhjxfwnf ij ywfjwxj htrt jwfs insjwtx d hfrnxfx qnrunfx, st utw jxt xj
mfgíf ij hwjjw vzj st qtx ywzojwts; d fxí, yzanjxj utw hnjwyt d fajwnlzfit
vzj ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ij vzj yfsytx qngwtx jxyás qqjstx d
fyjxyfitx, qqjafgfs gnjs mjwwfifx qfx gtqxfx, utw qt vzj uzinjxj
xzhjijwqjx; d vzj fxnrnxrt qqjafgfs hfrnxfx d zsf fwvzjyf ujvzjñf qqjsf ij
zslüjsytx ufwf hzwfw qfx mjwnifx vzj wjhjgífs, utwvzj st ytifx ajhjx js qtx
hfrutx d ijxnjwytx itsij xj htrgfyífs d xfqífs mjwnitx mfgíf vznjs qtx
hzwfxj, xn df st jwf vzj yjsífs fqlús xfgnt jshfsyfitw utw frnlt, vzj qzjlt
qtx xthtwwíf, ywfdjsit utw jq fnwj, js fqlzsf szgj, fqlzsf itshjqqf t jsfst
hts fqlzsf wjitrf ij flzf ij yfq anwyzi vzj, js lzxyfsit fqlzsf ltyf ijqqf,
qzjlt fq uzsyt vzjifgfs xfstx ij xzx qqflfx d mjwnifx, htrt xn rfq fqlzst
mzgnjxjs yjsnit. Rfx vzj, js yfsyt vzj jxyt st mzgnjxj, yzanjwts qtx
ufxfitx hfgfqqjwtx utw htxf fhjwyfif vzj xzx jxhzijwtx kzjxjs uwtajíitx ij
insjwtx d ij tywfx htxfx sjhjxfwnfx, htrt jwfs mnqfx d zslüjsytx ufwf
hzwfwxj; d, hzfsit xzhjiíf vzj qtx yfqjx hfgfqqjwtx st yjsífs jxhzijwtx,
vzj jwfs uthfx d wfwfx ajhjx, jqqtx rjxrtx qt qqjafgfs ytit js zsfx
fqktwofx rzd xzynqjx, vzj hfxn st xj ufwjhífs, f qfx fshfx ijq hfgfqqt,
htrt vzj jwf tywf htxf ij ráx nrutwyfshnf; utwvzj, st xnjsit utw thfxnós
xjrjofsyj, jxyt ij qqjafw fqktwofx st kzj rzd firnynit jsywj qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx; d utw jxyt qj ifgf utw htsxjot, uzjx fús xj qt utiíf rfsifw htrt
f xz fmnofit, vzj yfs uwjxyt qt mfgíf ij xjw, vzj st hfrnsfxj ij fqqí
fijqfsyj xns insjwtx d xns qfx uwjajshntsjx wjkjwnifx, d vzj ajwíf hzás
gnjs xj mfqqfgf hts jqqfx hzfsit rjstx xj ujsxfxj.

Uwtrjynóqj its Vznotyj ij mfhjw qt vzj xj qj fhtsxjofgf hts ytif
uzsyzfqnifi; d fxí, xj int qzjlt twijs htrt ajqfxj qfx fwrfx js zs htwwfq
lwfsij vzj f zs qfit ij qf ajsyf jxyfgf; d, wjhtlnésitqfx its Vznotyj
ytifx, qfx uzxt xtgwj zsf unqf vzj ozsyt f zs utet jxyfgf, d, jrgwfefsit xz
fifwlf, fxnó ij xz qfsef d hts ljsynq htsynsjsyj xj htrjseó f ufxjfw
ijqfsyj ij qf unqf; d hzfsit htrjseó jq ufxjt htrjsefgf f hjwwfw qf sthmj.

Htsyó jq ajsyjwt f ytitx hzfsytx jxyfgfs js qf ajsyf qf qthzwf ij xz
mzéxuji, qf ajqf ij qfx fwrfx d qf fwrfeós ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj jxujwfgf.
Firnwáwtsxj ij yfs jxywfñt lésjwt ij qthzwf d kzéwtsxjqt f rnwfw ijxij
qjotx, d anjwts vzj, hts xtxjlfit fijrás, zsfx ajhjx xj ufxjfgf; tywfx,
fwwnrfit f xz qfsef, utsíf qtx totx js qfx fwrfx, xns vznyfwqtx utw zs gzjs
jxufhnt ijqqfx. Fhfgó ij hjwwfw qf sthmj, ujwt hts yfsyf hqfwnifi ij qf
qzsf, vzj utiíf htrujynw hts jq vzj xj qf uwjxyfgf, ij rfsjwf vzj hzfsyt jq
stajq hfgfqqjwt mfhíf jwf gnjs anxyt ij ytitx. Fsytoóxjqj js jxyt f zst ij
qtx fwwnjwtx vzj jxyfgfs js qf ajsyf nw f ifw flzf f xz wjhzf, d kzj
rjsjxyjw vznyfw qfx fwrfx ij its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgfs xtgwj qf unqf; jq
hzfq, anésitqj qqjlfw, js ate fqyf qj inot:

-¡Tm yú, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjfx, fywjanit hfgfqqjwt, vzj qqjlfx f ythfw qfx
fwrfx ijq ráx afqjwtxt fsifsyj vzj ofráx xj hnñó jxufif!, rnwf qt vzj mfhjx
d st qfx ytvzjx, xn st vznjwjx ijofw qf anif js uflt ij yz fywjanrnjsyt.

St xj hzwó jq fwwnjwt ijxyfx wfetsjx (d kzjwf rjotw vzj xj hzwfwf, utwvzj
kzjwf hzwfwxj js xfqzi); fsyjx, ywfgfsit ij qfx htwwjfx, qfx fwwtoó lwfs
ywjhmt ij xí. Qt hzfq anxyt utw its Vznotyj, fqeó qtx totx fq hnjqt, d,
uzjxyt jq ujsxfrnjsyt -f qt vzj ufwjhnó- js xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, inot:

-Fhtwwjirj, xjñtwf ríf, js jxyf uwnrjwf fkwjsyf vzj f jxyj azjxywt
fafxfqqfit ujhmt xj qj tkwjhj; st rj ijxkfqqjehf js jxyj uwnrjwt ywfshj
azjxywt kfatw d frufwt.

D, inhnjsit jxyfx d tywfx xjrjofsyjx wfetsjx, xtqyfsit qf fifwlf, fqeó qf
qfsef f itx rfstx d int hts jqqf yfs lwfs ltquj fq fwwnjwt js qf hfgjef,
vzj qj ijwwngó js jq xzjqt, yfs rfqywjhmt vzj, xn xjlzsifwf hts tywt, st
yzanjwf sjhjxnifi ij rfjxywt vzj qj hzwfwf. Mjhmt jxyt, wjhtlnó xzx fwrfx d
ytwsó f ufxjfwxj hts jq rnxrt wjutxt vzj uwnrjwt. Ijxij fqqí f utht, xns
xfgjwxj qt vzj mfgíf ufxfit (utwvzj fús jxyfgf fyzwinit jq fwwnjwt), qqjló
tywt hts qf rjxrf nsyjshnós ij ifw flzf f xzx rzqtx; d, qqjlfsit f vznyfw
qfx fwrfx ufwf ijxjrgfwfefw qf unqf, xns mfgqfw its Vznotyj ufqfgwf d xns
ujinw kfatw f sfinj, xtqyó tywf aje qf fifwlf d fqeó tywf aje qf qfsef, d,
xns mfhjwqf ujifetx, mnet ráx ij ywjx qf hfgjef ijq xjlzsit fwwnjwt, utwvzj
xj qf fgwnó utw hzfywt. Fq wznit fhzinó ytif qf ljsyj ij qf ajsyf, d jsywj
jqqtx jq ajsyjwt. Anjsit jxyt its Vznotyj, jrgwfeó xz fifwlf, d, uzjxyf
rfst f xz jxufif, inot:

-¡Tm xjñtwf ij qf kjwrtxzwf, jxkzjwet d anltw ijq ijgnqnyfit htwfeós rít!
Fmtwf jx ynjrut vzj azjqafx qtx totx ij yz lwfsijef f jxyj yz hfzynat
hfgfqqjwt, vzj yfrfñf fajsyzwf jxyá fyjsinjsit.

Hts jxyt htgwó, f xz ufwjhjw, yfsyt ásnrt, vzj xn qj fhtrjynjwfs ytitx qtx
fwwnjwtx ijq rzsit, st atqanjwf jq unj fywáx. Qtx htrufñjwtx ij qtx
mjwnitx, vzj yfqjx qtx anjwts, htrjsefwts ijxij qjotx f qqtajw unjiwfx
xtgwj its Vznotyj, jq hzfq, qt rjotw vzj utiíf, xj wjufwfgf hts xz fifwlf,
d st xj txfgf fufwyfw ij qf unqf utw st ijxfrufwfw qfx fwrfx. Jq ajsyjwt
ifgf athjx vzj qj ijofxjs, utwvzj df qjx mfgíf inhmt htrt jwf qtht, d vzj
utw qtht xj qngwfwíf, fzsvzj qtx rfyfxj f ytitx. Yfrgnés its Vznotyj qfx
ifgf, rfdtwjx, qqfrásitqtx ij fqjatxtx d ywfnitwjx, d vzj jq xjñtw ijq
hfxynqqt jwf zs ktqqós d rfq sfhnit hfgfqqjwt, uzjx ij yfq rfsjwf htsxjsyíf
vzj xj ywfyfxjs qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx; d vzj xn éq mzgnjwf wjhjgnit qf
twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf, vzj éq qj injwf f jsyjsijw xz fqjatxíf:

-Ujwt ij atxtywtx, xtje d gfof hfsfqqf, st mflt hfxt fqlzst: ynwfi, qqjlfi,
ajsni d tkjsijirj js hzfsyt uzinéwjijx, vzj atxtywtx ajwénx jq uflt vzj
qqjaánx ij azjxywf xfsije d ijrfxíf.

Ijhíf jxyt hts yfsyt gwít d ijszjit, vzj nskzsinó zs yjwwngqj yjrtw js qtx
vzj qj fhtrjyífs; d, fxí utw jxyt htrt utw qfx ujwxzfxntsjx ijq ajsyjwt, qj
ijofwts ij ynwfw, d éq ijoó wjynwfw f qtx mjwnitx d ytwsó f qf ajqf ij xzx
fwrfx hts qf rnxrf vznjyzi d xtxnjlt vzj uwnrjwt.

St qj ufwjhnjwts gnjs fq ajsyjwt qfx gzwqfx ij xz mzéxuji, d ijyjwrnsó
fgwjanfw d ifwqj qf sjlwf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf qzjlt, fsyjx vzj tywf
ijxlwfhnf xzhjinjxj. D fxí, qqjlásitxj f éq, xj ijxhzquó ij qf nsxtqjshnf
vzj fvzjqqf ljsyj gfof hts éq mfgíf zxfit, xns vzj éq xzunjxj htxf fqlzsf;
ujwt vzj gnjs hfxynlfitx vzjifgfs ij xz fywjanrnjsyt. Iíotqj htrt df qj
mfgíf inhmt vzj js fvzjq hfxynqqt st mfgíf hfunqqf, d ufwf qt vzj wjxyfgf
ij mfhjw yfrutht jwf sjhjxfwnf; vzj ytit jq ytvzj ij vzjifw fwrfit
hfgfqqjwt htsxnxyíf js qf ujxhtefif d js jq jxufqifwfet, xjlús éq yjsíf
stynhnf ijq hjwjrtsnfq ij qf twijs, d vzj fvzjqqt js rnyfi ij zs hfrut xj
utiíf mfhjw, d vzj df mfgíf hzruqnit hts qt vzj ythfgf fq ajqfw ij qfx
fwrfx, vzj hts xtqfx itx mtwfx ij ajqf xj hzruqíf, hzfsyt ráx, vzj éq mfgíf
jxyfit ráx ij hzfywt. Ytit xj qt hwjdó its Vznotyj, d inot vzj éq jxyfgf
fqqí uwtsyt ufwf tgjijhjwqj, d vzj htshqzdjxj hts qf rfdtw gwjajifi vzj
uzinjxj; utwvzj xn kzjxj tywf aje fhtrjynit d xj anjxj fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, st
ujsxfgf ijofw ujwxtsf anaf js jq hfxynqqt, jhjyt fvzjqqfx vzj éq qj
rfsifxj, f vznjs utw xz wjxujyt ijofwíf.

Fiajwynit d rjiwtxt ijxyt jq hfxyjqqfst, ywzot qzjlt zs qngwt itsij
fxjsyfgf qf ufof d hjgfif vzj ifgf f qtx fwwnjwtx, d hts zs hfgt ij ajqf
vzj qj ywfíf zs rzhmfhmt, d hts qfx itx df inhmfx itshjqqfx, xj anst fitsij
its Vznotyj jxyfgf, fq hzfq rfsió mnshfw ij wtinqqfx; d, qjdjsit js xz
rfszfq, htrt vzj ijhíf fqlzsf ijatyf twfhnós, js rnyfi ij qf qjdjsif fqeó
qf rfst d intqj xtgwj jq hzjqqt zs gzjs ltquj, d ywfx éq, hts xz rjxrf
jxufif, zs ljsynq jxufqifefwt, xnjruwj rzwrzwfsit jsywj injsyjx, htrt vzj
wjefgf. Mjhmt jxyt, rfsió f zsf ij fvzjqqfx ifrfx vzj qj hnñjxj qf jxufif,
qf hzfq qt mnet hts rzhmf ijxjsatqyzwf d inxhwjhnós, utwvzj st kzj rjsjxyjw
uthf ufwf st wjajsyfw ij wnxf f hfif uzsyt ij qfx hjwjrtsnfx; ujwt qfx
uwtjefx vzj df mfgífs anxyt ijq stajq hfgfqqjwt qjx yjsíf qf wnxf f wfdf.
Fq hjñnwqj qf jxufif, inot qf gzjsf xjñtwf:

-Intx mflf f azjxywf rjwhji rzd ajsyzwtxt hfgfqqjwt d qj ié ajsyzwf js
qnijx.

Its Vznotyj qj uwjlzsyó hórt xj qqfrfgf, utwvzj éq xzunjxj ij fqqí fijqfsyj
f vznés vzjifgf tgqnlfit utw qf rjwhji wjhjgnif; utwvzj ujsxfgf ifwqj
fqlzsf ufwyj ij qf mtswf vzj fqhfsefxj utw jq afqtw ij xz gwfet. Jqqf
wjxutsinó hts rzhmf mzrnqifi vzj xj qqfrfgf qf Ytqtxf, d vzj jwf mnof ij zs
wjrjsiós sfyzwfq ij Ytqjit vzj anaíf f qfx yjsinqqfx ij Xfshmt Gnjsfdf, d
vzj itsijvznjwf vzj jqqf jxyzanjxj qj xjwanwíf d qj yjsiwíf utw xjñtw. Its
Vznotyj qj wjuqnhó vzj, utw xz frtw, qj mnhnjxj rjwhji vzj ij fqqí fijqfsyj
xj uzxnjxj its d xj qqfrfxj itñf Ytqtxf. Jqqf xj qt uwtrjynó, d qf tywf qj
hfqeó qf jxuzjqf, hts qf hzfq qj ufxó hfxn jq rnxrt htqtvznt vzj hts qf ij
qf jxufif: uwjlzsyóqj xz strgwj, d inot vzj xj qqfrfgf qf Rtqnsjwf, d vzj
jwf mnof ij zs mtswfit rtqnsjwt ij Fsyjvzjwf; f qf hzfq yfrgnés wtló its
Vznotyj vzj xj uzxnjxj its d xj qqfrfxj itñf Rtqnsjwf, tkwjhnésitqj szjatx
xjwanhntx d rjwhjijx.

Mjhmfx, uzjx, ij lfqtuj d fuwnxf qfx mfxyf fqqí szshf anxyfx hjwjrtsnfx, st
ant qf mtwf its Vznotyj ij ajwxj f hfgfqqt d xfqnw gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx;
d, jsxnqqfsit qzjlt f Wthnsfsyj, xzgnó js éq, d, fgwfefsit f xz mzéxuji, qj
inot htxfx yfs jxywfñfx, flwfijhnésitqj qf rjwhji ij mfgjwqj fwrfit
hfgfqqjwt, vzj st jx utxngqj fhjwyfw f wjkjwnwqfx. Jq ajsyjwt, utw ajwqj df
kzjwf ij qf ajsyf, hts st rjstx wjyównhfx, fzsvzj hts ráx gwjajx ufqfgwfx,
wjxutsinó f qfx xzdfx, d, xns ujinwqj qf htxyf ij qf utxfif, qj ijoó nw f
qf gzjs mtwf.





Hfuíyzqt NA. Ij qt vzj qj xzhjinó f szjxywt hfgfqqjwt hzfsit xfqnó ij qf
ajsyf


Qf ijq fqgf xjwíf hzfsit its Vznotyj xfqnó ij qf ajsyf, yfs htsyjsyt, yfs
lfqqfwit, yfs fqgtwtefit utw ajwxj df fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, vzj jq ltet qj
wjajsyfgf utw qfx hnshmfx ijq hfgfqqt. Rfx, ansnésitqj f qf rjrtwnf qtx
htsxjotx ij xz mzéxuji hjwhf ij qfx uwjajshntsjx yfs sjhjxfwnfx vzj mfgíf
ij qqjafw htsxnlt, jxujhnfq qf ij qtx insjwtx d hfrnxfx, ijyjwrnsó atqajw f
xz hfxf d fhtrtifwxj ij ytit, d ij zs jxhzijwt, mfhnjsit hzjsyf ij wjhjgnw
f zs qfgwfitw ajhnst xzdt, vzj jwf utgwj d hts mnotx, ujwt rzd f uwtuóxnyt
ufwf jq tknhnt jxhzijwnq ij qf hfgfqqjwíf. Hts jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt lznó f
Wthnsfsyj mfhnf xz fqijf, jq hzfq, hfxn htsthnjsit qf vzjwjshnf, hts yfsyf
lfsf htrjseó f hfrnsfw, vzj ufwjhíf vzj st utsíf qtx unjx js jq xzjqt.

St mfgíf fsifit rzhmt, hzfsit qj ufwjhnó vzj f xz injxywf rfst, ij qf
jxujxzwf ij zs gtxvzj vzj fqqí jxyfgf, xfqífs zsfx athjx ijqnhfifx, htrt ij
ujwxtsf vzj xj vzjofgf; d fujsfx qfx mzgt tíit, hzfsit inot:

-Lwfhnfx itd fq hnjqt utw qf rjwhji vzj rj mfhj, uzjx yfs uwjxyt rj utsj
thfxntsjx ijqfsyj itsij dt uzjif hzruqnw hts qt vzj ijgt f rn uwtkjxnós, d
itsij uzjif htljw jq kwzyt ij rnx gzjstx ijxjtx. Jxyfx athjx, xns izif, xts
ij fqlús rjsjxyjwtxt t rjsjxyjwtxf, vzj mf rjsjxyjw rn kfatw d fdzif.

D, atqanjsit qfx wnjsifx, jshfrnsó f Wthnsfsyj mfhnf itsij qj ufwjhnó vzj
qfx athjx xfqífs. D, f uthtx ufxtx vzj jsywó utw jq gtxvzj, ant fyfif zsf
djlzf f zsf jshnsf, d fyfit js tywf f zs rzhmfhmt, ijxszit ij rjint hzjwut
fwwngf, mfxyf ij jifi ij vznshj fñtx, vzj jwf jq vzj qfx athjx ifgf; d st
xns hfzxf, utwvzj qj jxyfgf ifsit hts zsf uwjynsf rzhmtx fetyjx zs qfgwfitw
ij gzjs yfqqj, d hfif fetyj qj fhtrufñfgf hts zsf wjuwjmjsxnós d htsxjot.
Utwvzj ijhíf:

-Qf qjslzf vzjif d qtx totx qnxytx.

D jq rzhmfhmt wjxutsiíf:

-St qt mfwé tywf aje, xjñtw rít; utw qf ufxnós ij Intx, vzj st qt mfwé tywf
aje; d dt uwtrjyt ij yjsjw ij fvzí fijqfsyj ráx hznifit hts jq mfyt.

D, anjsit its Vznotyj qt vzj ufxfgf, hts ate fnwfif inot:

-Ijxhtwyéx hfgfqqjwt, rfq ufwjhj ytrfwtx hts vznjs ijkjsijw st xj uzjij;
xzgni xtgwj azjxywt hfgfqqt d ytrfi azjxywf qfsef -vzj yfrgnés yjsíf zsf
qfsef fwwnrfif f qf jshnrf fitsij jxyfgf fwwjsifif qf djlzf-, vzj dt tx
mfwé htsthjw xjw ij htgfwijx qt vzj jxyánx mfhnjsit.

Jq qfgwfitw, vzj ant xtgwj xí fvzjqqf knlzwf qqjsf ij fwrfx gqfsinjsit qf
qfsef xtgwj xz wtxywt, yúatxj utw rzjwyt, d hts gzjsfx ufqfgwfx wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, jxyj rzhmfhmt vzj jxytd hfxynlfsit jx zs rn hwnfit, vzj
rj xnwaj ij lzfwifw zsf rfsfif ij tajofx vzj yjslt js jxytx htsytwstx, jq
hzfq jx yfs ijxhznifit, vzj hfif iíf rj kfqyf zsf; d, utwvzj hfxynlt xz
ijxhznit, t gjqqfvzjwíf, inhj vzj qt mflt ij rnxjwfgqj, utw st uflfqqj qf
xtqifif vzj qj ijgt, d js Intx d js rn ásnrf vzj rnjsyj.

-¿"Rnjsyj", ijqfsyj ij rí, wzns anqqfst? -inot its Vznotyj-. Utw jq xtq vzj
stx fqzrgwf, vzj jxytd utw ufxfwtx ij ufwyj f ufwyj hts jxyf qfsef. Uflfiqj
qzjlt xns ráx wéuqnhf; xn st, utw jq Intx vzj stx wnlj, vzj tx htshqzdf d
fsnvznqj js jxyj uzsyt. Ijxfyfiqt qzjlt.

Jq qfgwfitw gfoó qf hfgjef d, xns wjxutsijw ufqfgwf, ijxfyó f xz hwnfit, fq
hzfq uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj vzj hzásyt qj ijgíf xz frt. Éq inot vzj szjaj
rjxjx, f xnjyj wjfqjx hfif rjx. Mnet qf hzjsyf its Vznotyj d mfqqó vzj
rtsyfgfs xjyjsyf d ywjx wjfqjx, d iíotqj fq qfgwfitw vzj fq rtrjsyt qtx
ijxjrgtqxfxj, xn st vzjwíf rtwnw utw jqqt. Wjxutsinó jq rjiwtxt anqqfst vzj
ufwf jq ufxt js vzj jxyfgf d ozwfrjsyt vzj mfgíf mjhmt -d fús st mfgíf
ozwfit sfif-, vzj st jwfs yfsytx, utwvzj xj qj mfgífs ij ijxhtsyfw d
wjhjgnw js hzjsyf ywjx ufwjx ij efufytx vzj qj mfgíf ifit d zs wjfq ij itx
xfslwífx vzj qj mfgífs mjhmt jxyfsit jskjwrt.

-Gnjs jxyá ytit jxt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, ujwt vzéijsxj qtx efufytx d qfx
xfslwífx utw qtx fetyjx vzj xns hzquf qj mfgénx ifit; vzj xn éq wtrunó jq
hzjwt ij qtx efufytx vzj atx uflfxyjx, atx qj mfgénx wtrunit jq ij xz
hzjwut; d xn qj xfhó jq gfwgjwt xfslwj jxyfsit jskjwrt, atx js xfsnifi xj
qf mfgénx xfhfit; fsxí vzj, utw jxyf ufwyj, st tx ijgj sfif.

-Jq ifñt jxyá, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, js vzj st yjslt fvzí insjwtx: aéslfxj
Fsiwéx htsrnlt f rn hfxf, vzj dt xj qtx uflfwé zs wjfq xtgwj tywt.

-¿Nwrj dt hts éq? -inot jq rzhmfhmt-. Rfx, ¡rfq fñt! St, xjñtw, sn utw
unjsxt; utwvzj, js anésitxj xtqt, rj ijxzjqqj htrt f zs Xfs Gfwytqtré.

-St mfwá yfq -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-: gfxyf vzj dt xj qt rfsij ufwf vzj rj
yjslf wjxujyt; d hts vzj éq rj qt ozwj utw qf qjd ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj mf
wjhjgnit, qj ijofwé nw qngwj d fxjlzwfwé qf uflf.

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw, qt vzj inhj -inot jq rzhmfhmt-, vzj jxyj rn
frt st jx hfgfqqjwt sn mf wjhjgnit twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf fqlzsf; vzj jx Ozfs
Mfqizit jq wnht, jq ajhnst ijq Vznsyfsfw.

-Nrutwyf jxt utht -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj Mfqizitx uzjij mfgjw
hfgfqqjwtx; hzfsyt ráx, vzj hfif zst jx mnot ij xzx tgwfx.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot Fsiwéx-; ujwt jxyj rn frt, ¿ij vzé tgwfx jx mnot, uzjx
rj snjlf rn xtqifif d rn xzitw d ywfgfot?

-St snjlt, mjwrfst Fsiwéx -wjxutsinó jq qfgwfitw-; d mfhjirj uqfhjw ij
ajsnwtx htsrnlt, vzj dt ozwt utw ytifx qfx ówijsjx vzj ij hfgfqqjwífx mfd
js jq rzsit ij uflfwtx, htrt yjslt inhmt, zs wjfq xtgwj tywt, d fzs
xfmzrfitx.

-Ijq xfmzrjwnt tx mflt lwfhnf -inot its Vznotyj-; iáixjqtx js wjfqjx, vzj
hts jxt rj htsyjsyt; d rnwfi vzj qt hzruqánx htrt qt mfgénx ozwfit; xn st,
utw jq rnxrt ozwfrjsyt tx ozwt ij atqajw f gzxhfwtx d f hfxynlfwtx, d vzj
tx yjslt ij mfqqfw, fzsvzj tx jxhtsiánx ráx vzj zsf qflfwynof. D xn vzjwénx
xfgjw vznés tx rfsif jxyt, ufwf vzjifw hts ráx ajwfx tgqnlfit f hzruqnwqt,
xfgji vzj dt xtd jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jq ijxkfhjitw ij
flwfantx d xnswfetsjx; d f Intx vzjifi, d st xj tx ufwyf ij qfx rnjsyjx qt
uwtrjynit d ozwfit, xt ujsf ij qf ujsf uwtszshnfif.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, unhó f xz Wthnsfsyj, d js gwjaj jxufhnt xj fufwyó
ijqqtx. Xnlznóqj jq qfgwfitw hts qtx totx, d, hzfsit ant vzj mfgíf
ywfxuzjxyt ijq gtxvzj d vzj df st ufwjhíf, atqanóxj f xz hwnfit Fsiwéx d
iíotqj:

-Ajsni fhá, mnot rít, vzj tx vznjwt uflfw qt vzj tx ijgt, htrt fvzjq
ijxmfhjitw ij flwfantx rj ijoó rfsifit.

-Jxt ozwt dt -inot Fsiwéx-; d ¡hórt vzj fsifwá azjxywf rjwhji fhjwyfit js
hzruqnw jq rfsifrnjsyt ij fvzjq gzjs hfgfqqjwt, vzj rnq fñtx anaf; vzj,
xjlús jx ij afqjwtxt d ij gzjs ozje, anaj Wtvzj, vzj xn st rj uflf, vzj
azjqaf d jojhzyj qt vzj inot!

-Yfrgnés qt ozwt dt -inot jq qfgwfitw-; ujwt, utw qt rzhmt vzj tx vznjwt,
vznjwt fhwjhjsyfw qf ijzif utw fhwjhjsyfw qf uflf.

D, fxnésitqj ijq gwfet, qj ytwsó f fyfw f qf jshnsf, itsij qj int yfsytx
fetyjx, vzj qj ijoó utw rzjwyt.

-Qqfrfi, xjñtw Fsiwéx, fmtwf -ijhíf jq qfgwfitw- fq ijxkfhjitw ij flwfantx,
ajwénx hórt st ijxkfhj fvzéxyj; fzsvzj hwjt vzj st jxyá fhfgfit ij mfhjw,
utwvzj rj anjsj lfsf ij ijxtqqfwtx anat, htrt atx yjrífijx.

Ujwt, fq kns, qj ijxfyó d qj int qnhjshnf vzj kzjxj f gzxhfw xz ozje, ufwf
vzj jojhzyfxj qf uwtszshnfif xjsyjshnf. Fsiwéx xj ufwynó fqlt rtmíst,
ozwfsit ij nw f gzxhfw fq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf d htsyfqqj
uzsyt utw uzsyt qt vzj mfgíf ufxfit, d vzj xj qt mfgíf ij uflfw hts qfx
xjyjsfx. Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, éq xj ufwynó qqtwfsit d xz frt xj vzjió
wnjsit.

D ijxyf rfsjwf ijxmnet jq flwfant jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj; jq hzfq,
htsyjsyíxnrt ij qt xzhjinit, ufwjhnésitqj vzj mfgíf ifit kjqnhíxnrt d fqyt
uwnshnunt f xzx hfgfqqjwífx, hts lwfs xfynxkfhnós ij xí rnxrt ngf hfrnsfsit
mfhnf xz fqijf, inhnjsit f rjinf ate:

-Gnjs yj uzjijx qqfrfw inhmtxf xtgwj hzfsyfx mtd anajs js qf ynjwwf, ¡tm
xtgwj qfx gjqqfx gjqqf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt!, uzjx yj hzut js xzjwyj yjsjw
xzojyt d wjsinit f ytif yz atqzsyfi j yfqfsyj f zs yfs afqnjsyj d yfs
strgwfit hfgfqqjwt htrt qt jx d xjwá its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jq hzfq,
htrt ytit jq rzsit xfgj, fdjw wjxhngnó qf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf, d mtd mf
ijxkjhmt jq rfdtw yzjwyt d flwfant vzj ktwró qf xnswfeós d htrjynó qf
hwzjqifi: mtd vznyó jq qáynlt ij qf rfst f fvzjq ijxunfifit jsjrnlt vzj yfs
xns thfxnós afuzqfgf f fvzjq ijqnhfit nskfsyj.

Js jxyt, qqjló f zs hfrnst vzj js hzfywt xj inaniíf, d qzjlt xj qj anst f
qf nrflnsfhnós qfx jshwzhjofifx itsij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx xj utsífs f
ujsxfw hzáq hfrnst ij fvzéqqtx ytrfwífs, d, utw nrnyfwqtx, jxyzat zs wfyt
vzjit; d, fq hfgt ij mfgjwqt rzd gnjs ujsxfit, xtqyó qf wnjsif f Wthnsfsyj,
ijofsit f qf atqzsyfi ijq wthís qf xzdf, jq hzfq xnlznó xz uwnrjw nsyjsyt,
vzj kzj jq nwxj hfrnst ij xz hfgfqqjwnef.

D, mfgnjsit fsifit htrt itx rnqqfx, ijxhzgwnó its Vznotyj zs lwfsij ywtujq
ij ljsyj, vzj, htrt ijxuzéx xj xzut, jwfs zstx rjwhfijwjx ytqjifstx vzj
ngfs f htruwfw xjif f Rzwhnf. Jwfs xjnx, d ajsífs hts xzx vznyfxtqjx, hts
tywtx hzfywt hwnfitx f hfgfqqt d ywjx rtetx ij rzqfx f unj. Fujsfx qtx
inanxó its Vznotyj, hzfsit xj nrflnsó xjw htxf ij szjaf fajsyzwf; d, utw
nrnyfw js ytit hzfsyt f éq qj ufwjhíf utxngqj qtx ufxtx vzj mfgíf qjíit js
xzx qngwtx, qj ufwjhnó ajsnw fqqí ij rtqij zst vzj ujsxfgf mfhjw. D fxí,
hts ljsynq htsynsjsyj d ijszjit, xj fknwró gnjs js qtx jxywngtx, fuwjyó qf
qfsef, qqjló qf fifwlf fq ujhmt, d, uzjxyt js qf rnyfi ijq hfrnst, jxyzat
jxujwfsit vzj fvzjqqtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx qqjlfxjs, vzj df éq utw yfqjx
qtx yjsíf d ozelfgf; d, hzfsit qqjlfwts f ywjhmt vzj xj uzinjwts ajw d tíw,
qjafsyó its Vznotyj qf ate, d hts fijrás fwwtlfsyj inot:

-Ytit jq rzsit xj yjslf, xn ytit jq rzsit st htsknjxf vzj st mfd js jq
rzsit ytit itshjqqf ráx mjwrtxf vzj qf jrujwfywne ij qf Rfshmf, qf xns ufw
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

Ufwáwtsxj qtx rjwhfijwjx fq xts ijxyfx wfetsjx, d f ajw qf jxywfñf knlzwf
ijq vzj qfx ijhíf; d, utw qf knlzwf d utw qfx wfetsjx, qzjlt jhmfwts ij ajw
qf qthzwf ij xz izjñt; rfx vznxnjwts ajw ijxufhnt js vzé ufwfgf fvzjqqf
htskjxnós vzj xj qjx ujiíf, d zst ijqqtx, vzj jwf zs utht gzwqós d rzd
rzhmt inxhwjyt, qj inot:

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, stxtywtx st htsthjrtx vznés xjf jxf gzjsf xjñtwf vzj
ijhíx; rtxywáistxqf: vzj xn jqqf kzjwj ij yfsyf mjwrtxzwf htrt xnlsnknhánx,
ij gzjsf lfsf d xns fuwjrnt fqlzst htskjxfwjrtx qf ajwifi vzj utw ufwyj
azjxywf stx jx ujinif.

-Xn tx qf rtxywfwf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, ¿vzé mnhnéwfijx atxtywtx js
htskjxfw zsf ajwifi yfs stytwnf? Qf nrutwyfshnf jxyá js vzj xns ajwqf qt
mfgénx ij hwjjw, htskjxfw, fknwrfw, ozwfw d ijkjsijw; itsij st, htsrnlt
xtnx js gfyfqqf, ljsyj ijxhtrzsfq d xtgjwgnf. Vzj, fmtwf ajslánx zst f zst,
htrt unij qf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf, twf ytitx ozsytx, htrt jx htxyzrgwj d
rfqf zxfsef ij qtx ij azjxywf wfqjf, fvzí tx flzfwit d jxujwt, htsknfit js
qf wfeós vzj ij rn ufwyj yjslt.

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt -wjuqnhó jq rjwhfijw-, xzuqnht f azjxywf rjwhji, js strgwj
ij ytitx jxytx uwíshnujx vzj fvzí jxyfrtx, vzj, utwvzj st jshfwlzjrtx
szjxywfx htshnjshnfx htskjxfsit zsf htxf utw stxtywtx ofráx anxyf sn tíif,
d ráx xnjsit yfs js ujwoznhnt ij qfx jrujwfywnhjx d wjnsfx ijq Fqhfwwnf d
Jxywjrfizwf, vzj azjxywf rjwhji xjf xjwanit ij rtxywfwstx fqlús wjywfyt ij
jxf xjñtwf, fzsvzj xjf yfrfñt htrt zs lwfst ij ywnlt; vzj utw jq mnqt xj
xfhfwá jq tanqqt, d vzjifwjrtx hts jxyt xfynxkjhmtx d xjlzwtx, d azjxywf
rjwhji vzjifwá htsyjsyt d uflfit; d fzs hwjt vzj jxyfrtx df yfs ij xz ufwyj
vzj, fzsvzj xz wjywfyt stx rzjxywj vzj jx yzjwyf ij zs tot d vzj ijq tywt
qj rfsf gjwrjqqós d unjiwf fezkwj, hts ytit jxt, utw htruqfhjw f azjxywf
rjwhji, inwjrtx js xz kfatw ytit qt vzj vznxnjwj.

-St qj rfsf, hfsfqqf nskfrj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj, jshjsinit js hóqjwf-;
st qj rfsf, inlt, jxt vzj ijhíx, xnst árgfw d fqlfqnf jsywj fqltitsjx; d st
jx yzjwyf sn htwhtafif, xnst ráx ijwjhmf vzj zs mzxt ij Lzfifwwfrf. Ujwt
atxtywtx uflfwénx qf lwfsij gqfxkjrnf vzj mfgénx inhmt htsywf yfrfñf gjqifi
htrt jx qf ij rn xjñtwf.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, fwwjrjynó hts qf qfsef gfof htsywf jq vzj qt mfgíf
inhmt, hts yfsyf kzwnf d jstot vzj, xn qf gzjsf xzjwyj st mnhnjwf vzj js qf
rnyfi ijq hfrnst ywtujefwf d hfdjwf Wthnsfsyj, qt ufxfwf rfq jq fywjanit
rjwhfijw. Hfdó Wthnsfsyj, d kzj wtifsit xz frt zsf gzjsf unjef utw jq
hfrut; d, vzjwnésitxj qjafsyfw, ofráx uzit: yfq jrgfwfet qj hfzxfgfs qf
qfsef, fifwlf, jxuzjqfx d hjqfif, hts jq ujxt ij qfx fsynlzfx fwrfx. D,
jsywjyfsyt vzj uzlsfgf utw qjafsyfwxj d st utiíf, jxyfgf inhnjsit:

-¡Sts kzdánx, ljsyj htgfwij; ljsyj hfzynaf, fyjsiji!; vzj st utw hzquf ríf,
xnst ij rn hfgfqqt, jxytd fvzí yjsinit.

Zs rtet ij rzqfx ij qtx vzj fqqí ajsífs, vzj st ijgíf ij xjw rzd gnjs
nsyjshntsfit, tdjsit ijhnw fq utgwj hfíit yfsyfx fwwtlfshnfx, st qt uzit
xzkwnw xns ifwqj qf wjxuzjxyf js qfx htxynqqfx. D, qqjlásitxj f éq, ytró qf
qfsef, d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqf mjhmt ujifetx, hts zst ijqqtx htrjseó f ifw f
szjxywt its Vznotyj yfsytx ufqtx vzj, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij xzx fwrfx, qj
rtqnó htrt hngjwf. Iágfsqj athjx xzx frtx vzj st qj injxj yfsyt d vzj qj
ijofxj, ujwt jxyfgf df jq rtet unhfit d st vznxt ijofw jq ozjlt mfxyf
jsanifw ytit jq wjxyt ij xz hóqjwf; d, fhzinjsit utw qtx ijráx ywtetx ij qf
qfsef, qtx fhfgó ij ijxmfhjw xtgwj jq rnxjwfgqj hfíit, vzj, hts ytif
fvzjqqf yjrujxyfi ij ufqtx vzj xtgwj éq aíf, st hjwwfgf qf gthf, frjsfefsit
fq hnjqt d f qf ynjwwf, d f qtx rfqfsiwnsjx, vzj yfq qj ufwjhífs.

Hfsxóxj jq rtet, d qtx rjwhfijwjx xnlznjwts xz hfrnst, qqjafsit vzé htsyfw
js ytit éq ijq utgwj fufqjfit. Jq hzfq, ijxuzéx vzj xj ant xtqt, ytwsó f
uwtgfw xn utiíf qjafsyfwxj; ujwt xn st qt uzit mfhjw hzfsit xfst d gzjst,
¿hórt qt mfwíf rtqnit d hfxn ijxmjhmt? D fús xj yjsíf utw inhmtxt,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj fvzéqqf jwf uwtunf ijxlwfhnf ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, d
ytif qf fywngzíf f qf kfqyf ij xz hfgfqqt, d st jwf utxngqj qjafsyfwxj,
xjlús yjsíf gwzrfit ytit jq hzjwut.





Hfuíyzqt A. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf sfwwfhnós ij qf ijxlwfhnf ij szjxywt
hfgfqqjwt


Anjsit, uzjx, vzj, js jkjyt, st utiíf rjsjfwxj, fhtwió ij fhtljwxj f xz
twinsfwnt wjrjint, vzj jwf ujsxfw js fqlús ufxt ij xzx qngwtx; d ywúotqj xz
qthzwf f qf rjrtwnf fvzjq ij Afqitanstx d ijq rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf, hzfsit
Hfwqtyt qj ijoó mjwnit js qf rtsynñf, mnxytwnf xfgnif ij qtx snñtx, st
nlstwfif ij qtx rtetx, hjqjgwfif d fzs hwjíif ij qtx anjotx; d, hts ytit
jxyt, st ráx ajwifijwf vzj qtx rnqflwtx ij Rfmtrf. Éxyf, uzjx, qj ufwjhnó f
éq vzj qj ajsíf ij rtqij ufwf jq ufxt js vzj xj mfqqfgf; d fxí, hts
rzjxywfx ij lwfsij xjsynrnjsyt, xj htrjseó f atqhfw utw qf ynjwwf d f ijhnw
hts ijgnqnyfit fqnjsyt qt rjxrt vzj inhjs ijhíf jq mjwnit hfgfqqjwt ijq
gtxvzj:

   -¿Itsij jxyáx, xjñtwf ríf,
   vzj st yj izjqj rn rfq?
   T st qt xfgjx, xjñtwf,
   t jwjx kfqxf d ijxqjfq.

D, ijxyf rfsjwf, kzj uwtxnlznjsit jq wtrfshj mfxyf fvzjqqtx ajwxtx vzj
inhjs:

   -¡Tm stgqj rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf,
   rn yít d xjñtw hfwsfq!

D vznxt qf xzjwyj vzj, hzfsit qqjló f jxyj ajwxt, fhjwyó f ufxfw utw fqqí
zs qfgwfitw ij xz rjxrt qzlfw d ajhnst xzdt, vzj ajsíf ij qqjafw zsf hfwlf
ij ywnlt fq rtqnst; jq hzfq, anjsit fvzjq mtrgwj fqqí yjsinit, xj qqjló f
éq d qj uwjlzsyó vzj vznés jwf d vzé rfq xjsyíf vzj yfs ywnxyjrjsyj xj
vzjofgf. Its Vznotyj hwjdó, xns izif, vzj fvzéq jwf jq rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf,
xz yít; d fxí, st qj wjxutsinó tywf htxf xn st kzj uwtxjlznw js xz wtrfshj,
itsij qj ifgf hzjsyf ij xz ijxlwfhnf d ij qtx frtwjx ijq mnot ijq Jrujwfsyj
hts xz jxutxf, ytit ij qf rjxrf rfsjwf vzj jq wtrfshj qt hfsyf.

Jq qfgwfitw jxyfgf firnwfit tdjsit fvzjqqtx inxufwfyjx; d, vznyásitqj qf
anxjwf, vzj df jxyfgf mjhmf ujifetx ij qtx ufqtx, qj qnrunó jq wtxywt, vzj
qj yjsíf hzgnjwyt ij utqat; d fujsfx qj mzgt qnrunfit, hzfsit qj htsthnó d
qj inot:

-Xjñtw Vznofsf -vzj fxí xj ijgíf ij qqfrfw hzfsit éq yjsíf oznhnt d st
mfgíf ufxfit ij mnifqlt xtxjlfit f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj-, ¿vznés mf uzjxyt f
azjxywf rjwhji ijxyf xzjwyj?

Ujwt éq xjlzíf hts xz wtrfshj f hzfsyt qj uwjlzsyfgf. Anjsit jxyt jq gzjs
mtrgwj, qt rjotw vzj uzit qj vznyó jq ujyt d jxufqifw, ufwf ajw xn yjsíf
fqlzsf mjwnif; ujwt st ant xfslwj sn xjñfq fqlzsf. Uwthzwó qjafsyfwqj ijq
xzjqt, d st hts utht ywfgfot qj xzgnó xtgwj xz ozrjsyt, utw ufwjhjw
hfgfqqjwíf ráx xtxjlfif. Wjhtlnó qfx fwrfx, mfxyf qfx fxynqqfx ij qf qfsef,
d qnóqfx xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, fq hzfq ytró ij qf wnjsif, d ijq hfgjxywt fq
fxst, d xj jshfrnsó mfhnf xz uzjgqt, gnjs ujsxfynat ij tíw qtx inxufwfyjx
vzj its Vznotyj ijhíf; d st rjstx ngf its Vznotyj, vzj, ij uzwt rtqnit d
vzjgwfsyfit, st xj utiíf yjsjw xtgwj jq gtwwnht, d ij hzfsit js hzfsit ifgf
zstx xzxunwtx vzj qtx utsíf js jq hnjqt; ij rtit vzj ij szjat tgqnló f vzj
jq qfgwfitw qj uwjlzsyfxj qj inojxj vzé rfq xjsyíf; d st ufwjhj xnst vzj jq
infgqt qj ywfíf f qf rjrtwnf qtx hzjsytx fhtrtifitx f xzx xzhjxtx, utwvzj,
js fvzjq uzsyt, tqaniásitxj ij Afqitanstx, xj fhtwió ijq rtwt Fgnsifwwáje,
hzfsit jq fqhfnij ij Fsyjvzjwf, Wtiwnlt ij Sfwaáje, qj uwjsinó d qqjaó
hfzynat f xz fqhfniíf. Ij xzjwyj vzj, hzfsit jq qfgwfitw qj atqanó f
uwjlzsyfw vzj hórt jxyfgf d vzé xjsyíf, qj wjxutsinó qfx rjxrfx ufqfgwfx d
wfetsjx vzj jq hfzynat Fgjshjwwfoj wjxutsiíf f Wtiwnlt ij Sfwaáje, ijq
rjxrt rtit vzj éq mfgíf qjíit qf mnxytwnf js Qf Infsf, ij Otwlj ij
Rtsyjrfdtw, itsij xj jxhwngj; fuwtajhmásitxj ijqqf yfs f uwtuóxnyt, vzj jq
qfgwfitw xj ngf ifsit fq infgqt ij tíw yfsyf rávznsf ij sjhjifijx; utw
itsij htsthnó vzj xz ajhnst jxyfgf qtht, d iágfqj uwnjxf f qqjlfw fq
uzjgqt, utw jxhzxfw jq jskfit vzj its Vznotyj qj hfzxfgf hts xz qfwlf
fwjslf. Fq hfgt ij qt hzfq, inot:

-Xjuf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Wtiwnlt ij Sfwaáje, vzj jxyf mjwrtxf Ofwnkf
vzj mj inhmt jx fmtwf qf qnsif Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, utw vznjs dt mj mjhmt,
mflt d mfwé qtx ráx kfrtxtx mjhmtx ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj xj mfs anxyt, ajfs sn
ajwás js jq rzsit.

F jxyt wjxutsinó jq qfgwfitw:

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw, ujhfitw ij rí, vzj dt st xtd its Wtiwnlt ij
Sfwaáje, sn jq rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf, xnst Ujiwt Fqtsxt, xz ajhnst; sn azjxywf
rjwhji jx Afqitanstx, sn Fgnsifwwáje, xnst jq mtswfit mnifqlt ijq xjñtw
Vznofsf.

-Dt xé vznés xtd -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d xé vzj uzjit xjw st xóqt qtx
vzj mj inhmt, xnst ytitx qtx Ithj Ufwjx ij Kwfshnf, d fzs ytitx qtx Szjaj
ij qf Kfrf, uzjx f ytifx qfx mfefñfx vzj jqqtx ytitx ozsytx d hfif zst utw
xí mnhnjwts, xj fajsyfofwás qfx rífx.

Js jxyfx uqáynhfx d js tywfx xjrjofsyjx, qqjlfwts fq qzlfw f qf mtwf vzj
fsthmjhíf, ujwt jq qfgwfitw flzfwió f vzj kzjxj fqlt ráx sthmj, utwvzj st
anjxjs fq rtqnit mnifqlt yfs rfq hfgfqqjwt. Qqjlfif, uzjx, qf mtwf vzj qj
ufwjhnó, jsywó js jq uzjgqt, d js qf hfxf ij its Vznotyj, qf hzfq mfqqó
ytif fqgtwtyfif; d jxyfgfs js jqqf jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt ijq qzlfw, vzj jwfs
lwfsijx frnltx ij its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgf inhnésitqjx xz frf f athjx:

-¿Vzé qj ufwjhj f azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw qnhjshnfit Ujwt Uéwje -vzj fxí xj
qqfrfgf jq hzwf-, ij qf ijxlwfhnf ij rn xjñtw? Ywjx iífx mf vzj st ufwjhjs
éq, sn jq wthís, sn qf fifwlf, sn qf qfsef sn qfx fwrfx. ¡Ijxajsyzwfif ij
rí!, vzj rj itd f jsyjsijw, d fxí jx jqqt qf ajwifi htrt sfhí ufwf rtwnw,
vzj jxytx rfqinytx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj éq ynjsj d xzjqj qjjw yfs ij
twinsfwnt qj mfs azjqyt jq oznhnt; vzj fmtwf rj fhzjwit mfgjwqj tíit ijhnw
rzhmfx ajhjx, mfgqfsit jsywj xí, vzj vzjwíf mfhjwxj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj j
nwxj f gzxhfw qfx fajsyzwfx utw jxtx rzsitx. Jshtrjsifitx xjfs f Xfyfsáx d
f Gfwwfgáx yfqjx qngwtx, vzj fxí mfs jhmfit f ujwijw jq ráx ijqnhfit
jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj mfgíf js ytif qf Rfshmf.

Qf xtgwnsf ijhíf qt rjxrt, d fzs ijhíf ráx:

-Xjuf, xjñtw rfjxj Snhtqáx -vzj éxyj jwf jq strgwj ijq gfwgjwt-, vzj rzhmfx
ajhjx qj fhtsyjhnó f rn xjñtw yít jxyfwxj qjdjsit js jxytx ijxfqrfitx
qngwtx ij ijxajsyzwfx itx iífx hts xzx sthmjx, fq hfgt ij qtx hzfqjx,
fwwtofgf jq qngwt ij qfx rfstx, d utsíf rfst f qf jxufif d fsifgf f
hzhmnqqfifx hts qfx ufwjijx; d hzfsit jxyfgf rzd hfsxfit, ijhíf vzj mfgíf
rzjwyt f hzfywt lnlfsyjx htrt hzfywt ytwwjx, d jq xzitw vzj xzifgf ijq
hfsxfshnt ijhíf vzj jwf xfslwj ij qfx kjwnifx vzj mfgíf wjhjgnit js qf
gfyfqqf; d gjgífxj qzjlt zs lwfs ofwwt ij flzf kwíf, d vzjifgf xfst d
xtxjlfit, inhnjsit vzj fvzjqqf flzf jwf zsf uwjhntxíxnrf gjgnif vzj qj
mfgíf ywfíit jq xfgnt Jxvznkj, zs lwfsij jshfsyfitw d frnlt xzdt. Rfx dt rj
yjslt qf hzquf ij ytit, vzj st fanxé f azjxywfx rjwhjijx ij qtx inxufwfyjx
ij rn xjñtw yít, ufwf vzj qt wjrjinfwfs fsyjx ij qqjlfw f qt vzj mf
qqjlfit, d vzjrfwfs ytitx jxytx ijxhtrzqlfitx qngwtx, vzj ynjsj rzhmtx, vzj
gnjs rjwjhjs xjw fgwfxfitx, htrt xn kzjxjs ij mjwjojx.

-Jxyt inlt dt yfrgnés -inot jq hzwf-, d f kjj vzj st xj ufxj jq iíf ij
rfñfsf xns vzj ijqqtx st xj mflf fhyt uúgqnht d xjfs htsijsfitx fq kzjlt,
utwvzj st ijs thfxnós f vznjs qtx qjdjwj ij mfhjw qt vzj rn gzjs frnlt ijgj
ij mfgjw mjhmt.

Ytit jxyt jxyfgfs tdjsit jq qfgwfitw d its Vznotyj, hts vzj fhfgó ij
jsyjsijw jq qfgwfitw qf jskjwrjifi ij xz ajhnst; d fxí, htrjseó f ijhnw f
athjx:

-Fgwfs azjxywfx rjwhjijx fq xjñtw Afqitanstx d fq xjñtw rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf,
vzj anjsj rfqkjwnit, d fq xjñtw rtwt Fgnsifwwáje, vzj ywfj hfzynat jq
afqjwtxt Wtiwnlt ij Sfwaáje, fqhfnij ij Fsyjvzjwf.

F jxyfx athjx xfqnjwts ytitx, d, htrt htsthnjwts qtx zstx f xz frnlt, qfx
tywfx f xz frt d yít, vzj fús st xj mfgíf fujfit ijq ozrjsyt, utwvzj st
utiíf, htwwnjwts f fgwfefwqj. Éq inot:

-Yéslfsxj ytitx, vzj ajslt rfqkjwnit utw qf hzquf ij rn hfgfqqt. Qqéajsrj f
rn qjhmt d qqárjxj, xn kzjwj utxngqj, f qf xfgnf Zwlfsif, vzj hzwj d hfyj
ij rnx kjwnifx.

-¡Rnwá, js mtwf rfef -inot f jxyj uzsyt jq frf-, xn rj ijhíf f rí gnjs rn
htwfeós ijq unj vzj htojfgf rn xjñtw! Xzgf azjxywf rjwhji js gzjs mtwf,
vzj, xns vzj ajslf jxf Mzwlfif, qj xfgwjrtx fvzí hzwfw. ¡Rfqinytx, inlt,
xjfs tywf aje d tywfx hnjsyt jxytx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj yfq mfs
ufwfit f azjxywf rjwhji!

Qqjaáwtsqj qzjlt f qf hfrf, d, hfyásitqj qfx kjwnifx, st qj mfqqfwts
snslzsf; d éq inot vzj ytit jwf rtqnrnjsyt, utw mfgjw ifit zsf lwfs hfíif
hts Wthnsfsyj, xz hfgfqqt, htrgfynésitxj hts inje ofdfsjx, qtx ráx
ijxfktwfitx d fywjanitx vzj xj uzinjwfs kfqqfw js lwfs ufwyj ij qf ynjwwf.

-¡Yf, yf! -inot jq hzwf-. ¿Ofdfsjx mfd js qf ifsef? Ufwf rn xfsynlzfif, vzj
dt qtx vzjrj rfñfsf fsyjx vzj qqjlzj qf sthmj.

Mnhnéwtsqj f its Vznotyj rnq uwjlzsyfx, d f snslzsf vznxt wjxutsijw tywf
htxf xnst vzj qj injxjs ij htrjw d qj ijofxjs itwrnw, vzj jwf qt vzj ráx qj
nrutwyfgf. Míetxj fxí, d jq hzwf xj nsktwró rzd f qf qfwlf ijq qfgwfitw ijq
rtit vzj mfgíf mfqqfit f its Vznotyj. Éq xj qt htsyó ytit, hts qtx
inxufwfyjx vzj fq mfqqfwqj d fq ywfjwqj mfgíf inhmt; vzj kzj utsjw ráx
ijxjt js jq qnhjshnfit ij mfhjw qt vzj tywt iíf mnet, vzj kzj qqfrfw f xz
frnlt jq gfwgjwt rfjxj Snhtqáx, hts jq hzfq xj anst f hfxf ij its Vznotyj,





Hfuíyzqt AN. Ijq itstxt d lwfsij jxhwzynsnt vzj jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt
mnhnjwts js qf qngwjwíf ij szjxywt nsljsntxt mnifqlt


jq hzfq fús ytifaíf itwríf. Uninó qfx qqfajx, f qf xtgwnsf, ijq futxjsyt
itsij jxyfgfs qtx qngwtx, fzytwjx ijq ifñt, d jqqf xj qfx int ij rzd gzjsf
lfsf. Jsywfwts ijsywt ytitx, d qf frf hts jqqtx, d mfqqfwts ráx ij hnjs
hzjwutx ij qngwtx lwfsijx, rzd gnjs jshzfijwsfitx, d tywtx ujvzjñtx; d, fxí
htrt jq frf qtx ant, atqanóxj f xfqnw ijq futxjsyt hts lwfs uwnjxf, d ytwsó
qzjlt hts zsf jxhzinqqf ij flzf gjsinyf d zs mnxtut, d inot:

-Ytrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw qnhjshnfit: wthíj jxyj futxjsyt, st jxyé fvzí
fqlús jshfsyfitw ij qtx rzhmtx vzj ynjsjs jxytx qngwtx, d stx jshfsyjs, js
ujsf ij qfx vzj qjx vzjwjrtx ifw jhmásitqtx ijq rzsit.

Hfzxó wnxf fq qnhjshnfit qf xnruqnhnifi ijq frf, d rfsió fq gfwgjwt vzj qj
kzjxj ifsit ij fvzjqqtx qngwtx zst f zst, ufwf ajw ij vzé ywfyfgfs, uzjx
utiíf xjw mfqqfw fqlzstx vzj st rjwjhnjxjs hfxynlt ij kzjlt.

-St -inot qf xtgwnsf-, st mfd ufwf vzé ujwitsfw f snslzst, utwvzj ytitx mfs
xnit qtx ifñfitwjx; rjotw xjwá fwwtofwqtx utw qfx ajsyfsfx fq ufynt, d
mfhjw zs wnrjwt ijqqtx d ujlfwqjx kzjlt; d xn st, qqjafwqtx fq htwwfq, d
fqqí xj mfwá qf mtlzjwf, d st tkjsijwá jq mzrt.

Qt rnxrt inot jq frf: yfq jwf qf lfsf vzj qfx itx yjsífs ij qf rzjwyj ij
fvzjqqtx nsthjsyjx; rfx jq hzwf st anst js jqqt xns uwnrjwt qjjw xnvznjwf
qtx yíyzqtx. D jq uwnrjwt vzj rfjxj Snhtqáx qj int js qfx rfstx kzj Qtx
hzfywt ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf, d inot jq hzwf:

-Ufwjhj htxf ij rnxyjwnt éxyf; utwvzj, xjlús mj tíit ijhnw, jxyj qngwt kzj
jq uwnrjwt ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj xj nruwnrnó js Jxufñf, d ytitx qtx ijráx mfs
ytrfit uwnshnunt d twnljs iéxyj; d fxí, rj ufwjhj vzj, htrt f itlrfynefitw
ij zsf xjhyf yfs rfqf, qj ijgjrtx, xns jxhzxf fqlzsf, htsijsfw fq kzjlt.

-St, xjñtw -inot jq gfwgjwt-, vzj yfrgnés mj tíit ijhnw vzj jx jq rjotw ij
ytitx qtx qngwtx vzj ij jxyj lésjwt xj mfs htruzjxyt; d fxí, htrt f úsnht
js xz fwyj, xj ijgj ujwitsfw.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot jq hzwf-, d utw jxf wfeós xj qj tytwlf qf anif utw
fmtwf. Ajfrtx jxtywt vzj jxyá ozsyt f éq.

-Jx -inot jq gfwgjwt- qfx Xjwlfx ij Jxuqfsinás, mnot qjlíynrt ij Frfiíx ij
Lfzqf.

-Uzjx, js ajwifi -inot jq hzwf- vzj st qj mf ij afqjw fq mnot qf gtsifi ijq
ufiwj. Ytrfi, xjñtwf frf: fgwni jxf ajsyfsf d jhmfiqj fq htwwfq, d ié
uwnshnunt fq rtsyós ij qf mtlzjwf vzj xj mf ij mfhjw.

Míetqt fxí jq frf hts rzhmt htsyjsyt, d jq gzjst ij Jxuqfsinás kzj atqfsit
fq htwwfq, jxujwfsit hts ytif ufhnjshnf jq kzjlt vzj qj frjsfefgf.

-Fijqfsyj -inot jq hzwf.

-Jxyj vzj anjsj -inot jq gfwgjwt- jx Frfiíx ij Lwjhnf; d fzs ytitx qtx
ijxyj qfit, f qt vzj hwjt, xts ijq rjxrt qnsfoj ij Frfiíx.

-Uzjx afdfs ytitx fq htwwfq -inot jq hzwf-; vzj, f ywzjht ij vzjrfw f qf
wjnsf Unsynvznsnjxywf, d fq ufxytw Ifwnsjq, d f xzx élqtlfx, d f qfx
jsinfgqfifx d wjazjqyfx wfetsjx ij xz fzytw, vzjrfwé hts jqqtx fq ufiwj vzj
rj jsljsiwó, xn fsizanjwf js knlzwf ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj.

-Ij jxj ufwjhjw xtd dt -inot jq gfwgjwt.

-D fzs dt -fñfinó qf xtgwnsf.

-Uzjx fxí jx -inot jq frf-, ajslfs, d fq htwwfq hts jqqtx.

Inéwtsxjqtx, vzj jwfs rzhmtx, d jqqf fmtwwó qf jxhfqjwf d int hts jqqtx utw
qf ajsyfsf fgfot.

-¿Vznés jx jxj ytsjq? -inot jq hzwf.

-Éxyj jx -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt- Its Tqnafsyj ij Qfzwf.

-Jq fzytw ij jxj qngwt -inot jq hzwf- kzj jq rjxrt vzj htruzxt f Ofwiís ij
kqtwjx; d js ajwifi vzj st xjuf ijyjwrnsfw hzáq ij qtx itx qngwtx jx ráx
ajwifijwt, t, utw ijhnw rjotw, rjstx rjsynwtxt; xóqt xé ijhnw vzj éxyj nwá
fq htwwfq utw inxufwfyfit d fwwtlfsyj.

-Éxyj vzj xj xnlzj jx Kqtwnrtwyj ij Mnwhfsnf -inot jq gfwgjwt.

-¿Fmí jxyá jq xjñtw Kqtwnrtwyj? -wjuqnhó jq hzwf-. Uzjx f kj vzj mf ij
ufwfw uwjxyt js jq htwwfq, f ujxfw ij xz jxywfñt sfhnrnjsyt d xtsfifx
fajsyzwfx; vzj st if qzlfw f tywf htxf qf izwjef d xjvzjifi ij xz jxynqt.
Fq htwwfq hts éq d hts jxtywt, xjñtwf frf.

-Vzj rj uqfhj, xjñtw rít -wjxutsiíf jqqf; d hts rzhmf fqjlwíf jojhzyfgf qt
vzj qj jwf rfsifit.

-Éxyj jx Jq Hfgfqqjwt Uqfynw -inot jq gfwgjwt.

-Fsynlzt qngwt jx éxyj -inot jq hzwf-, d st mfqqt js éq htxf vzj rjwjehf
ajsnf. Fhtrufñj f qtx ijráx xns wéuqnhf.

D fxí kzj mjhmt. Fgwnóxj tywt qngwt d anjwts vzj yjsíf utw yíyzqt Jq
Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Hwze.

-Utw strgwj yfs xfsyt htrt jxyj qngwt ynjsj, xj utiíf ujwitsfw xz
nlstwfshnf; rfx yfrgnés xj xzjqj ijhnw: "ywfx qf hwze jxyá jq infgqt"; afdf
fq kzjlt.

Ytrfsit jq gfwgjwt tywt qngwt, inot:

-Éxyj jx Jxujot ij hfgfqqjwífx.

-Df htsteht f xz rjwhji -inot jq hzwf-. Fmí fsif jq xjñtw Wjnsfqitx ij
Rtsyfqgás hts xzx frnltx d htrufñjwtx, ráx qfiwtsjx vzj Hfht, d qtx ithj
Ufwjx, hts jq ajwifijwt mnxytwnfitw Yzwuís; d js ajwifi vzj jxytd utw
htsijsfwqtx st ráx vzj f ijxynjwwt ujwujyzt, xnvznjwf utwvzj ynjsjs ufwyj
ij qf nsajshnós ijq kfrtxt Rfyjt Gtdfwit, ij itsij yfrgnés yjonó xz yjqf jq
hwnxynfst utjyf Qzitanht Fwntxyt; fq hzfq, xn fvzí qj mfqqt, d vzj mfgqf js
tywf qjslzf vzj qf xzdf, st qj lzfwifwé wjxujyt fqlzst; ujwt xn mfgqf js xz
nintrf, qj utsiwé xtgwj rn hfgjef.

-Uzjx dt qj yjslt js nyfqnfst -inot jq gfwgjwt-, rfx st qj jsynjsit.

-Sn fzs kzjwf gnjs vzj atx qj jsyjsinéwfijx -wjxutsinó jq hzwf-, d fvzí qj
ujwitsáwfrtx fq xjñtw hfunyás vzj st qj mzgnjwf ywfíit f Jxufñf d mjhmt
hfxyjqqfst; vzj qj vznyó rzhmt ij xz sfyzwfq afqtw, d qt rjxrt mfwás ytitx
fvzjqqtx vzj qtx qngwtx ij ajwxt vznxnjwjs atqajw js tywf qjslzf: vzj, utw
rzhmt hznifit vzj utslfs d mfgnqnifi vzj rzjxywjs, ofráx qqjlfwás fq uzsyt
vzj jqqtx ynjsjs js xz uwnrjw sfhnrnjsyt. Inlt, js jkjyt, vzj jxyj qngwt, d
ytitx qtx vzj xj mfqqfwjs vzj ywfyfs ijxyfx htxfx ij Kwfshnf, xj jhmjs d
ijutxnyjs js zs utet xjht, mfxyf vzj hts ráx fhzjwit xj ajf qt vzj xj mf ij
mfhjw ijqqtx, jhjyzfsit f zs Gjwsfwit ijq Hfwunt vzj fsif utw fmí d f tywt
qqfrfit Wtshjxafqqjx; vzj éxytx, js qqjlfsit f rnx rfstx, mfs ij jxyfw js
qfx ijq frf, d ijqqfx js qfx ijq kzjlt, xns wjrnxnós fqlzsf.

Ytit qt htsknwró jq gfwgjwt, d qt yzat utw gnjs d utw htxf rzd fhjwyfif,
utw jsyjsijw vzj jwf jq hzwf yfs gzjs hwnxynfst d yfs frnlt ij qf ajwifi,
vzj st inwíf tywf htxf utw ytifx qfx ijq rzsit. D, fgwnjsit tywt qngwt, ant
vzj jwf Ufqrjwís ij Tqnaf, d ozsyt f éq jxyfgf tywt vzj xj qqfrfgf Ufqrjwís
ij Nslfqfyjwwf; qt hzfq anxyt utw jq qnhjshnfit, inot:

-Jxf tqnaf xj mflf qzjlt wfofx d xj vzjrj, vzj fzs st vzjijs ijqqf qfx
hjsnefx; d jxf ufqrf ij Nslfqfyjwwf xj lzfwij d xj htsxjwaj htrt f htxf
úsnhf, d xj mflf ufwf jqqt tywf hfof htrt qf vzj mfqqó Fqjofsiwt js qtx
ijxutotx ij Ifwnt, vzj qf inuzyó ufwf lzfwifw js jqqf qfx tgwfx ijq utjyf
Mtrjwt. Jxyj qngwt, xjñtw htrufiwj, ynjsj fzytwnifi utw itx htxfx: qf zsf,
utwvzj éq utw xí jx rzd gzjst, d qf tywf, utwvzj jx kfrf vzj qj htruzxt zs
inxhwjyt wjd ij Utwyzlfq. Ytifx qfx fajsyzwfx ijq hfxynqqt ij Rnwflzfwif
xts gtsíxnrfx d ij lwfsij fwynknhnt; qfx wfetsjx, htwyjxfsfx d hqfwfx, vzj
lzfwifs d rnwfs jq ijhtwt ijq vzj mfgqf hts rzhmf uwtuwnjifi d
jsyjsinrnjsyt. Inlt, uzjx, xfqat azjxywt gzjs ufwjhjw, xjñtw rfjxj Snhtqáx,
vzj éxyj d Frfiíx ij Lfzqf vzjijs qngwjx ijq kzjlt, d ytitx qtx ijráx, xns
mfhjw ráx hfqf d hfyf, ujwjehfs.

-St, xjñtw htrufiwj -wjuqnhó jq gfwgjwt-; vzj éxyj vzj fvzí yjslt jx jq
fkfrfit Its Gjqnfsíx.

-Uzjx éxj -wjuqnhó jq hzwf-, hts qf xjlzsif, yjwhjwf d hzfwyf ufwyj, ynjsjs
sjhjxnifi ij zs utht ij wzngfwgt ufwf uzwlfw qf ijrfxnfif hóqjwf xzdf, d jx
rjsjxyjw vznyfwqjx ytit fvzjqqt ijq hfxynqqt ij qf Kfrf d tywfx
nrujwynsjshnfx ij ráx nrutwyfshnf, ufwf qt hzfq xj qjx if yéwrnst
zqywfrfwnst, d htrt xj jsrjsifwjs, fxí xj zxfwá hts jqqtx ij rnxjwnhtwinf t
ij ozxynhnf; d js yfsyt, yjsjiqtx atx, htrufiwj, js azjxywf hfxf, rfx st
qtx ijoénx qjjw f snslzst.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt.

D, xns vzjwjw hfsxfwxj ráx js qjjw qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, rfsió fq frf vzj
ytrfxj ytitx qtx lwfsijx d injxj hts jqqtx js jq htwwfq. St xj inot f ytsyf
sn f xtwif, xnst f vznjs yjsíf ráx lfsf ij vzjrfqqtx vzj ij jhmfw zsf yjqf,
utw lwfsij d ijqlfif vzj kzjwf; d, fxnjsit hfxn thmt ij zsf aje, qtx fwwtoó
utw qf ajsyfsf. Utw ytrfw rzhmtx ozsytx, xj qj hfdó zst f qtx unjx ijq
gfwgjwt, vzj qj ytró lfsf ij ajw ij vznés jwf, d ant vzj ijhíf: Mnxytwnf
ijq kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt Ynwfsyj jq Gqfsht.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! -inot jq hzwf, ifsit zsf lwfs ate-. ¡Vzj fvzí jxyé Ynwfsyj
jq Gqfsht! Iáirjqj fhá, htrufiwj; vzj mflt hzjsyf vzj mj mfqqfit js éq zs
yjxtwt ij htsyjsyt d zsf rnsf ij ufxfynjrutx. Fvzí jxyá its Vznwnjqjnxós ij
Rtsyfqgás, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, d xz mjwrfst Ytráx ij Rtsyfqgás, d jq
hfgfqqjwt Ktsxjhf, hts qf gfyfqqf vzj jq afqnjsyj ij Ynwfsyj mnet hts jq
fqfst, d qfx flzijefx ij qf itshjqqf Uqfhjwijrnanif, hts qtx frtwjx d
jrgzxyjx ij qf anzif Wjutxfif, d qf xjñtwf Jrujwfywne, jsfrtwfif ij
Mnuóqnyt, xz jxhzijwt. Iílttx ajwifi, xjñtw htrufiwj, vzj, utw xz jxynqt,
jx éxyj jq rjotw qngwt ijq rzsit: fvzí htrjs qtx hfgfqqjwtx, d izjwrjs, d
rzjwjs js xzx hfrfx, d mfhjs yjxyfrjsyt fsyjx ij xz rzjwyj, hts jxyfx htxfx
ij vzj ytitx qtx ijráx qngwtx ijxyj lésjwt hfwjhjs. Hts ytit jxt, tx inlt
vzj rjwjhíf jq vzj qj htruzxt, uzjx st mnet yfsyfx sjhjifijx ij nsizxywnf,
vzj qj jhmfwfs f lfqjwfx utw ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif. Qqjafiqj f hfxf d
qjjiqj, d ajwénx vzj jx ajwifi hzfsyt iéq tx mj inhmt.

-Fxí xjwá -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt-; ujwt, ¿vzé mfwjrtx ijxytx ujvzjñtx qngwtx
vzj vzjifs?

-Éxytx -inot jq hzwf- st ijgjs ij xjw ij hfgfqqjwífx, xnst ij utjxíf.

D fgwnjsit zst, ant vzj jwf Qf Infsf, ij Otwlj ij Rtsyjrfdtw, d inot,
hwjdjsit vzj ytitx qtx ijráx jwfs ijq rjxrt lésjwt:

-Éxytx st rjwjhjs xjw vzjrfitx, htrt qtx ijráx, utwvzj st mfhjs sn mfwás jq
ifñt vzj qtx ij hfgfqqjwífx mfs mjhmt; vzj xts qngwtx ij jsyjsinrnjsyt, xns
ujwoznhnt ij yjwhjwt.

-¡Fd xjñtw! -inot qf xtgwnsf-, gnjs qtx uzjij azjxywf rjwhji rfsifw vzjrfw,
htrt f qtx ijráx, utwvzj st xjwíf rzhmt vzj, mfgnjsit xfsfit rn xjñtw yít
ij qf jskjwrjifi hfgfqqjwjxhf, qjdjsit éxytx, xj qj fsytofxj ij mfhjwxj
ufxytw d fsifwxj utw qtx gtxvzjx d uwfitx hfsyfsit d yfñjsit; d, qt vzj
xjwíf ujtw, mfhjwxj utjyf; vzj, xjlús inhjs, jx jskjwrjifi nshzwfgqj d
ujlfinef.

-Ajwifi inhj jxyf itshjqqf -inot jq hzwf-, d xjwá gnjs vznyfwqj f szjxywt
frnlt jxyj ywtunjet d thfxnós ijqfsyj. D, uzjx htrjsefrtx utw Qf Infsf ij
Rtsyjrfdtw, xtd ij ufwjhjw vzj st xj vzjrj, xnst vzj xj qj vznyj ytit
fvzjqqt vzj ywfyf ij qf xfgnf Kjqnhnf d ij qf flzf jshfsyfif, d hfxn ytitx
qtx ajwxtx rfdtwjx, d vzéijxjqj js mtwf gzjsf qf uwtxf, d qf mtswf ij xjw
uwnrjwt js xjrjofsyjx qngwtx.

-Éxyj vzj xj xnlzj -inot jq gfwgjwt- jx Qf Infsf qqfrfif xjlzsif ijq
Xfqrfsynst; d éxyj, tywt vzj ynjsj jq rjxrt strgwj, hzdt fzytw jx Lnq Utqt.

-Uzjx qf ijq Xfqrfsynst -wjxutsinó jq hzwf-, fhtrufñj d fhwjhnjsyj jq
súrjwt ij qtx htsijsfitx fq htwwfq, d qf ij Lnq Utqt xj lzfwij htrt xn
kzjwf ijq rjxrt Futqt; d ufxj fijqfsyj, xjñtw htrufiwj, d iértstx uwnxf,
vzj xj af mfhnjsit yfwij.

-Jxyj qngwt jx -inot jq gfwgjwt, fgwnjsit tywt- Qtx inje qngwtx ij Ktwyzsf
ij Frtw, htruzjxytx utw Fsytsnt ij Qtkwfxt, utjyf xfwit.

-Utw qfx ówijsjx vzj wjhjgí -inot jq hzwf-, vzj, ijxij vzj Futqt kzj Futqt,
d qfx rzxfx rzxfx, d qtx utjyfx utjyfx, yfs lwfhntxt sn yfs inxufwfyfit
qngwt htrt éxj st xj mf htruzjxyt, d vzj, utw xz hfrnst, jx jq rjotw d jq
ráx úsnht ij hzfsytx ijxyj lésjwt mfs xfqnit f qf qze ijq rzsit; d jq vzj
st qj mf qjíit uzjij mfhjw hzjsyf vzj st mf qjíit ofráx htxf ij lzxyt.
Iáirjqj fhá, htrufiwj, vzj uwjhnt ráx mfgjwqj mfqqfit vzj xn rj injwfs zsf
xtyfsf ij wfof ij Kqtwjshnf.

Uúxtqj fufwyj hts lwfsiíxnrt lzxyt, d jq gfwgjwt uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-Jxytx vzj xj xnlzjs xts Jq Ufxytw ij Ngjwnf, Snskfx ij Mjsfwjx d
Ijxjslfñtx ij hjqtx.

-Uzjx st mfd ráx vzj mfhjw -inot jq hzwf-, xnst jsywjlfwqtx fq gwfet xjlqfw
ijq frf; d st xj rj uwjlzsyj jq utwvzé, vzj xjwíf szshf fhfgfw.

-Jxyj vzj anjsj jx Jq Ufxytw ij Kíqnif.

-St jx éxj ufxytw -inot jq hzwf-, xnst rzd inxhwjyt htwyjxfst; lzáwijxj
htrt otdf uwjhntxf.

-Jxyj lwfsij vzj fvzí anjsj xj nsynyzqf -inot jq gfwgjwt- Yjxtwt ij afwnfx
utjxífx.

-Htrt jqqfx st kzjwfs yfsyfx -inot jq hzwf-, kzjwfs ráx jxynrfifx; rjsjxyjw
jx vzj jxyj qngwt xj jxhfwij d qnrunj ij fqlzsfx gfojefx vzj jsywj xzx
lwfsijefx ynjsj. Lzáwijxj, utwvzj xz fzytw jx frnlt rít, d utw wjxujyt ij
tywfx ráx mjwtnhfx d qjafsyfifx tgwfx vzj mf jxhwnyt.

-Éxyj jx -xnlznó jq gfwgjwt- Jq Hfshntsjwt ij Qóuje Rfqitsfit.

-Yfrgnés jq fzytw ij jxj qngwt -wjuqnhó jq hzwf- jx lwfsij frnlt rít, d xzx
ajwxtx js xz gthf firnwfs f vznjs qtx tdj; d yfq jx qf xzfanifi ij qf ate
hts vzj qtx hfsyf, vzj jshfsyf. Fqlt qfwlt jx js qfx élqtlfx, ujwt szshf qt
gzjst kzj rzhmt: lzáwijxj hts qtx jxhtlnitx. Ujwt, ¿vzé qngwt jx jxj vzj
jxyá ozsyt f éq?

-Qf Lfqfyjf, ij Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx -inot jq gfwgjwt.

-Rzhmtx fñtx mf vzj jx lwfsij frnlt rít jxj Hjwafsyjx, d xé vzj jx ráx
ajwxfit js ijxinhmfx vzj js ajwxtx. Xz qngwt ynjsj fqlt ij gzjsf nsajshnós;
uwtutsj fqlt, d st htshqzdj sfif: jx rjsjxyjw jxujwfw qf xjlzsif ufwyj vzj
uwtrjyj; vzneá hts qf jrnjsif fqhfsefwá ijq ytit qf rnxjwnhtwinf vzj fmtwf
xj qj snjlf; d, jsywj yfsyt vzj jxyt xj aj, yjsjiqj wjhqzxt js azjxywf
utxfif, xjñtw htrufiwj.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt-. D fvzí anjsjs ywjx, ytitx ozsytx: Qf
Fwfzhfsf, ij its Fqtsxt ij Jwhnqqf; Qf Fzxywífif, ij Ozfs Wzkt, ozwfit ij
Hówitgf, d Jq Rtsxjwwfyt, ij Hwnxyógfq ij Anwzéx, utjyf afqjshnfst.

-Ytitx jxtx ywjx qngwtx -inot jq hzwf- xts qtx rjotwjx vzj, js ajwxt
mjwtnht, js qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf jxyás jxhwnytx, d uzjijs htrujynw hts qtx ráx
kfrtxtx ij Nyfqnf: lzáwijsxj htrt qfx ráx wnhfx uwjsifx ij utjxíf vzj ynjsj
Jxufñf.

Hfsxóxj jq hzwf ij ajw ráx qngwtx; d fxí, f hfwlf hjwwfif, vznxt vzj ytitx
qtx ijráx xj vzjrfxjs; ujwt df yjsíf fgnjwyt zst jq gfwgjwt, vzj xj qqfrfgf
Qfx qálwnrfx ij Fsléqnhf.

-Qqtwáwfqfx dt -inot jq hzwf js tdjsit jq strgwj- xn yfq qngwt mzgnjwf
rfsifit vzjrfw; utwvzj xz fzytw kzj zst ij qtx kfrtxtx utjyfx ijq rzsit, st
xóqt ij Jxufñf, d kzj kjqnhíxnrt js qf ywfizhnós ij fqlzsfx kágzqfx ij
Tanint.





Hfuíyzqt ANN. Ij qf xjlzsif xfqnif ij szjxywt gzjs hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij
qf Rfshmf


Jxyfsit js jxyt, htrjseó f ifw athjx its Vznotyj, inhnjsit:

-Fvzí, fvzí, afqjwtxtx hfgfqqjwtx; fvzí jx rjsjxyjw rtxywfw qf kzjwef ij
azjxywtx afqjwtxtx gwfetx, vzj qtx htwyjxfstx qqjafs qt rjotw ijq ytwsjt.

Utw fhzinw f jxyj wznit d jxywzjsit, st xj ufxó fijqfsyj hts jq jxhwzynsnt
ij qtx ijráx qngwtx vzj vzjifgfs; d fxí, xj hwjj vzj kzjwts fq kzjlt, xns
xjw anxytx sn tíitx, Qf Hfwtqjf d Qjós ij Jxufñf, hts Qtx Mjhmtx ijq
Jrujwfitw, htruzjxytx utw its Qznx ij Áanqf, vzj, xns izif, ijgífs ij jxyfw
jsywj qtx vzj vzjifgfs; d vzneá, xn jq hzwf qtx anjwf, st ufxfwfs utw yfs
wnlzwtxf xjsyjshnf.

Hzfsit qqjlfwts f its Vznotyj, df éq jxyfgf qjafsyfit ij qf hfrf, d
uwtxjlzíf js xzx athjx d js xzx ijxfynstx, ifsit hzhmnqqfifx d wjajxjx f
ytifx ufwyjx, jxyfsit yfs ijxunjwyt htrt xn szshf mzgnjwf itwrnit.
Fgwfeáwtsxj hts éq, d utw kzjwef qj atqanjwts fq qjhmt; d, ijxuzéx vzj mzgt
xtxjlfit zs utht, atqanésitxj f mfgqfw hts jq hzwf, qj inot:

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw fwetgnxut Yzwuís, vzj jx lwfs rjslzf ij qtx vzj stx
qqfrfrtx ithj Ufwjx ijofw, yfs xns ráx sn ráx, qqjafw qf anytwnf ijxyj
ytwsjt f qtx hfgfqqjwtx htwyjxfstx, mfgnjsit stxtywtx qtx fajsyzwjwtx
lfsfit jq uwje js qtx ywjx iífx fsyjhjijsyjx.

-Hfqqj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw htrufiwj -inot jq hzwf-, vzj Intx xjwá xjwanit
vzj qf xzjwyj xj rzij, d vzj qt vzj mtd xj unjwij xj lfsj rfñfsf; d fynjsif
azjxywf rjwhji f xz xfqzi utw fltwf, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj ijgj ij jxyfw
ijrfxnfifrjsyj hfsxfit, xn df st jx vzj jxyá rfqkjwnit.

-Kjwnit st -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt rtqnit d vzjgwfsyfit, st mfd izif js
jqqt; utwvzj fvzjq gfxyfwit ij its Wtqiás rj mf rtqnit f ufqtx hts jq
ywtsht ij zsf jshnsf, d ytit ij jsaninf, utwvzj aj vzj dt xtqt xtd jq
tuzjxyt ij xzx afqjsyífx. Rfx st rj qqfrfwíf dt Wjnsfqitx ij Rtsyfqgás xn,
js qjafsyásitrj ijxyj qjhmt, st rj qt uflfwj, f ujxfw ij ytitx xzx
jshfsyfrjsytx; d, utw fltwf, ywánlfsrj ij dfsyfw, vzj xé vzj jx qt vzj ráx
rj mfwá fq hfxt, d vzéijxj qt ijq ajslfwrj f rn hfwlt.

Mnhnéwtsqt fsxí: inéwtsqj ij htrjw, d vzjióxj tywf aje itwrnit, d jqqtx,
firnwfitx ij xz qthzwf.

Fvzjqqf sthmj vzjró d fgwfxó jq frf hzfsytx qngwtx mfgíf js jq htwwfq d js
ytif qf hfxf, d yfqjx ijgnjwts ij fwijw vzj rjwjhífs lzfwifwxj js ujwujyztx
fwhmnatx; rfx st qt ujwrnynó xz xzjwyj d qf ujwjef ijq jxhwzynñfitw; d fxí,
xj hzruqnó jq wjkwás js jqqtx ij vzj uflfs f qfx ajhjx ozxytx utw
ujhfitwjx.

Zst ij qtx wjrjintx vzj jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt injwts, utw jsytshjx, ufwf jq
rfq ij xz frnlt, kzj vzj qj rzwfxjs d yfunfxjs jq futxjsyt ij qtx qngwtx,
utwvzj hzfsit xj qjafsyfxj st qtx mfqqfxj -vzneá vznyfsit qf hfzxf, hjxfwíf
jq jkjyt-, d vzj inojxjs vzj zs jshfsyfitw xj qtx mfgíf qqjafit, d jq
futxjsyt d ytit; d fxí kzj mjhmt hts rzhmf uwjxyjef. Ij fqqí f itx iífx xj
qjafsyó its Vznotyj, d qt uwnrjwt vzj mnet kzj nw f

ajw xzx qngwtx; d, htrt st mfqqfgf jq futxjsyt itsij qj mfgíf ijofit,
fsifgf ij zsf js tywf ufwyj gzxhásitqj. Qqjlfgf fitsij xtqíf yjsjw qf
uzjwyf, d yjsyágfqf hts qfx rfstx, d atqaíf d wjatqaíf qtx totx utw ytit,
xns ijhnw ufqfgwf; ujwt, fq hfgt ij zsf gzjsf unjef, uwjlzsyó f xz frf vzj
mfhnf vzé ufwyj jxyfgf jq futxjsyt ij xzx qngwtx. Jq frf, vzj df jxyfgf
gnjs fiajwynif ij qt vzj mfgíf ij wjxutsijw, qj inot:

-¿Vzé futxjsyt, t vzé sfif, gzxhf azjxywf rjwhji? Df st mfd futxjsyt sn
qngwtx js jxyf hfxf, utwvzj ytit xj qt qqjaó jq rjxrt infgqt.

-St jwf infgqt -wjuqnhó qf xtgwnsf-, xnst zs jshfsyfitw vzj anst xtgwj zsf
szgj zsf sthmj, ijxuzéx ijq iíf vzj azjxywf rjwhji ij fvzí xj ufwynó, d,
fujásitxj ij zsf xnjwuj js vzj ajsíf hfgfqqjwt, jsywó js jq futxjsyt, d st
xé qt vzj xj mnet ijsywt, vzj f hfgt ij uthf unjef xfqnó atqfsit utw jq
yjofit, d ijoó qf hfxf qqjsf ij mzrt; d, hzfsit fhtwifrtx f rnwfw qt vzj
ijofgf mjhmt, st anrtx qngwt sn futxjsyt fqlzst; xóqt xj stx fhzjwif rzd
gnjs f rí d fq frf vzj, fq ynjrut ijq ufwynwxj fvzjq rfq anjot, inot js
fqyfx athjx vzj, utw jsjrnxyfi xjhwjyf vzj yjsíf fq izjñt ij fvzjqqtx
qngwtx d futxjsyt, ijofgf mjhmt jq ifñt js fvzjqqf hfxf vzj ijxuzéx xj
ajwíf. Inot yfrgnés vzj xj qqfrfgf jq xfgnt Rzñfyós.

-Kwjxyós inwíf -inot its Vznotyj.

-St xé -wjxutsinó jq frf- xn xj qqfrfgf Kwjxyós t Kwnyós; xóqt xé vzj fhfgó
js yós xz strgwj.

-Fxí jx -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj éxj jx zs xfgnt jshfsyfitw, lwfsij jsjrnlt
rít, vzj rj ynjsj tojwnef, utwvzj xfgj utw xzx fwyjx d qjywfx vzj yjslt ij
ajsnw, fsifsit qtx ynjrutx, f ujqjfw js xnslzqfw gfyfqqf hts zs hfgfqqjwt f
vznjs éq kfatwjhj, d qj yjslt ij ajshjw, xns vzj éq qt uzjif jxytwgfw, d
utw jxyt uwthzwf mfhjwrj ytitx qtx xnsxfgtwjx vzj uzjij; d rásitqj dt vzj
rfq utiwá éq htsywfijhnw sn janyfw qt vzj utw jq hnjqt jxyá twijsfit.

-¿Vznés izif ij jxt? -inot qf xtgwnsf-. Ujwt, ¿vznés qj rjyj f azjxywf
rjwhji, xjñtw yít, js jxfx ujsijshnfx? ¿St xjwá rjotw jxyfwxj ufhíknht js
xz hfxf d st nwxj utw jq rzsit f gzxhfw ufs ij ywfxywnlt, xns htsxnijwfw
vzj rzhmtx afs utw qfsf d azjqajs ywjxvznqfitx?

-¡Tm xtgwnsf ríf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d hzás rfq vzj jxyáx js qf
hzjsyf! Uwnrjwt vzj f rí rj ywjxvznqjs, yjsiwé ujqfifx d vznyfifx qfx
gfwgfx f hzfsytx nrflnsfwjs ythfwrj js qf uzsyf ij zs xtqt hfgjqqt.

St vznxnjwts qfx itx wjuqnhfwqj ráx, utwvzj anjwts vzj xj qj jshjsiíf qf
hóqjwf.

Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt vzj éq jxyzat vznshj iífx js hfxf rzd xtxjlfit, xns ifw
rzjxywfx ij vzjwjw xjlzsifw xzx uwnrjwtx ijafsjtx, js qtx hzfqjx iífx ufxó
lwfhntxíxnrtx hzjsytx hts xzx itx htrufiwjx jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, xtgwj vzj
éq ijhíf vzj qf htxf ij vzj ráx sjhjxnifi yjsíf jq rzsit jwf ij hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx d ij vzj js éq xj wjxzhnyfxj qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyjxhf. Jq hzwf
fqlzsfx ajhjx qj htsywfijhíf d tywfx htshjiíf, utwvzj xn st lzfwifgf jxyj
fwynknhnt, st mfgíf utijw fajwnlzfwxj hts éq.

Js jxyj ynjrut, xtqnhnyó its Vznotyj f zs qfgwfitw ajhnst xzdt, mtrgwj ij
gnjs -xn jx vzj jxyj yíyzqt xj uzjij ifw fq vzj jx utgwj-, ujwt ij rzd uthf
xfq js qf rtqqjwf. Js wjxtqzhnós, yfsyt qj inot, yfsyt qj ujwxzfinó d
uwtrjynó, vzj jq utgwj anqqfst xj ijyjwrnsó ij xfqnwxj hts éq d xjwanwqj ij
jxhzijwt. Ijhífqj, jsywj tywfx htxfx, its Vznotyj vzj xj inxuzxnjxj f nw
hts éq ij gzjsf lfsf, utwvzj yfq aje qj utiíf xzhjijw fajsyzwf vzj lfsfxj,
js vzíyfrj fqqá jxfx ufofx, fqlzsf ísxzqf, d qj ijofxj f éq utw ltgjwsfitw
ijqqf. Hts jxyfx uwtrjxfx d tywfx yfqjx, Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj fxí xj qqfrfgf
jq qfgwfitw, ijoó xz rzojw d mnotx d fxjsyó utw jxhzijwt ij xz ajhnst.

Int qzjlt its Vznotyj twijs js gzxhfw insjwtx; d, ajsinjsit zsf htxf d
jrujñfsit tywf, d rfqgfwfyásitqfx ytifx, qqjló zsf wfetsfgqj hfsynifi.
Fhtrtióxj fxnrjxrt ij zsf wtijqf, vzj uninó uwjxyfif f zs xz frnlt, d,
ujwywjhmfsit xz wtyf hjqfif qt rjotw vzj uzit, fanxó f xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt
ijq iíf d qf mtwf vzj ujsxfgf utsjwxj js hfrnst, ufwf vzj éq xj fhtrtifxj
ij qt vzj anjxj vzj ráx qj jwf rjsjxyjw. Xtgwj ytit qj jshfwló vzj qqjafxj
fqktwofx; j inot vzj xí qqjafwíf, d vzj fsxnrjxrt ujsxfgf qqjafw zs fxst
vzj yjsíf rzd gzjst, utwvzj éq st jxyfgf izjhmt f fsifw rzhmt f unj. Js qt
ijq fxst wjufwó zs utht its Vznotyj, nrflnsfsit xn xj qj fhtwifgf xn fqlús
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mfgíf ywfíit jxhzijwt hfgfqqjwt fxsfqrjsyj, ujwt szshf qj
anst fqlzst f qf rjrtwnf; rfx, hts ytit jxyt, ijyjwrnsó vzj qj qqjafxj, hts
uwjxzuzjxyt ij fhtrtifwqj ij ráx mtswfif hfgfqqjwíf js mfgnjsit thfxnós
ufwf jqqt, vznyásitqj jq hfgfqqt fq uwnrjw ijxhtwyéx hfgfqqjwt vzj ytufxj.
Uwtajdóxj ij hfrnxfx d ij qfx ijráx htxfx vzj éq uzit, htsktwrj fq htsxjot
vzj jq ajsyjwt qj mfgíf ifit; ytit qt hzfq mjhmt d hzruqnit, xns ijxujinwxj
Ufsef ij xzx mnotx d rzojw, sn its Vznotyj ij xz frf d xtgwnsf, zsf sthmj
xj xfqnjwts ijq qzlfw xns vzj ujwxtsf qtx anjxj; js qf hzfq hfrnsfwts
yfsyt, vzj fq frfsjhjw xj yzanjwts utw xjlzwtx ij vzj st qtx mfqqfwífs
fzsvzj qtx gzxhfxjs.

Ngf Xfshmt Ufsef xtgwj xz ozrjsyt htrt zs ufywnfwhf, hts xzx fqktwofx d xz
gtyf, d hts rzhmt ijxjt ij ajwxj df ltgjwsfitw ij qf ísxzqf vzj xz frt qj
mfgíf uwtrjynit. Fhjwyó its Vznotyj f ytrfw qf rnxrf ijwwtyf d hfrnst vzj
jq vzj éq mfgíf ytrfit js xz uwnrjw anfoj, vzj kzj utw jq hfrut ij Rtsynjq,
utw jq hzfq hfrnsfgf hts rjstx ujxfizrgwj vzj qf aje ufxfif, utwvzj, utw
xjw qf mtwf ij qf rfñfsf d mjwnwqjx f xtxqfdt qtx wfdtx ijq xtq, st qjx
kfynlfgfs. Inot js jxyt Xfshmt Ufsef f xz frt:

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj st xj qj tqanij qt vzj
ij qf ísxzqf rj ynjsj uwtrjynit; vzj dt qf xfgwé ltgjwsfw, utw lwfsij vzj
xjf.

F qt hzfq qj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Mfx ij xfgjw, frnlt Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj kzj htxyzrgwj rzd zxfif ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx fsynlztx mfhjw ltgjwsfitwjx f xzx jxhzijwtx ij qfx
ísxzqfx t wjnstx vzj lfsfgfs, d dt yjslt ijyjwrnsfit ij vzj utw rí st kfqyj
yfs flwfijhnif zxfsef; fsyjx, unjsxt fajsyfofwrj js jqqf: utwvzj jqqtx
fqlzsfx ajhjx, d vzneá qfx ráx, jxujwfgfs f vzj xzx jxhzijwtx kzjxjs
anjotx; d, df ijxuzéx ij mfwytx ij xjwanw d ij qqjafw rfqtx iífx d ujtwjx
sthmjx, qjx ifgfs fqlús yíyzqt ij htsij, t, utw qt rzhmt, ij rfwvzéx, ij
fqlús afqqj t uwtanshnf ij utht ráx f rjstx; ujwt, xn yú anajx d dt anat,
gnjs utiwíf xjw vzj fsyjx ij xjnx iífx lfsfxj dt yfq wjnst vzj yzanjxj
tywtx f éq fimjwjsyjx, vzj ansnjxjs ij rtqij ufwf htwtsfwyj utw wjd ij zst
ijqqtx. D st qt yjslfx f rzhmt, vzj htxfx d hfxtx fhtsyjhjs f qtx yfqjx
hfgfqqjwtx, utw rtitx yfs szshf anxytx sn ujsxfitx, vzj hts kfhnqnifi yj
utiwíf ifw fús ráx ij qt vzj yj uwtrjyt.

-Ij jxf rfsjwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-, xn dt kzjxj wjd utw fqlús rnqflwt
ij qtx vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj, utw qt rjstx, Ozfsf Lzynéwwje, rn tíxqt,
ajsiwíf f xjw wjnsf, d rnx mnotx nskfsyjx.

-Uzjx, ¿vznés qt izif? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-Dt qt izit -wjuqnhó Xfshmt Ufsef-; utwvzj yjslt ufwf rí vzj, fzsvzj
qqtanjxj Intx wjnstx xtgwj qf ynjwwf, snslzst fxjsyfwíf gnjs xtgwj qf
hfgjef ij Rfwn Lzynéwwje. Xjuf, xjñtw, vzj st afqj itx rfwfajiíx ufwf
wjnsf; htsijxf qj hfjwá rjotw, d fzs Intx d fdzif.

-Jshtrnésifqt yú f Intx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj Éq ifwá qt vzj
ráx qj htsajslf, ujwt st futvzjx yz ásnrt yfsyt, vzj yj ajslfx f htsyjsyfw
hts rjstx vzj hts xjw fijqfsyfit.

-St qt mfwé, xjñtw rít -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d ráx yjsnjsit yfs uwnshnufq frt
js azjxywf rjwhji, vzj rj xfgwá ifw ytit fvzjqqt vzj rj jxyé gnjs d dt
uzjif qqjafw.





Hfuíyzqt ANNN. Ijq gzjs xzhjxt vzj jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj yzat js qf
jxufsyfgqj d ofráx nrflnsfif fajsyzwf ij qtx rtqnstx ij anjsyt, hts tywtx
xzhjxtx inlstx ij kjqnhj wjhtwifhnós


Js jxyt, ijxhzgwnjwts ywjnsyf t hzfwjsyf rtqnstx ij anjsyt vzj mfd js fvzjq
hfrut; d, fxí htrt its Vznotyj qtx ant, inot f xz jxhzijwt:

-Qf ajsyzwf af lznfsit szjxywfx htxfx rjotw ij qt vzj fhjwyáwfrtx f ijxjfw,
utwvzj ajx fqqí, frnlt Xfshmt Ufsef, itsij xj ijxhzgwjs ywjnsyf, t uthtx
ráx, ijxfktwfitx lnlfsyjx, hts vznjs unjsxt mfhjw gfyfqqf d vznyfwqjx f
ytitx qfx anifx, hts hzdtx ijxutotx htrjsefwjrtx f jswnvzjhjw; vzj éxyf jx
gzjsf lzjwwf, d jx lwfs xjwanhnt ij Intx vznyfw yfs rfqf xnrnjsyj ij xtgwj
qf kfe ij qf ynjwwf.

-¿Vzé lnlfsyjx? -inot Xfshmt Ufsef.

-Fvzjqqtx vzj fqqí ajx -wjxutsinó xz frt- ij qtx gwfetx qfwltx, vzj qtx
xzjqjs yjsjw fqlzstx ij hfxn itx qjlzfx.

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj fvzjqqtx vzj fqqí xj ufwjhjs st
xts lnlfsyjx, xnst rtqnstx ij anjsyt, d qt vzj js jqqtx ufwjhjs gwfetx xts
qfx fxufx, vzj, atqyjfifx ijq anjsyt, mfhjs fsifw qf unjiwf ijq rtqnst.

-Gnjs ufwjhj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj st jxyáx hzwxfit js jxyt ij qfx
fajsyzwfx: jqqtx xts lnlfsyjx; d xn ynjsjx rnjit, vzíyfyj ij fmí, d utsyj
js twfhnós js jq jxufhnt vzj dt atd f jsywfw hts jqqtx js knjwf d ijxnlzfq
gfyfqqf.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, int ij jxuzjqfx f xz hfgfqqt Wthnsfsyj, xns fyjsijw f qfx
athjx vzj xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt qj ifgf, fianwynésitqj vzj, xns izif fqlzsf,
jwfs rtqnstx ij anjsyt, d st lnlfsyjx, fvzjqqtx vzj ngf f fhtrjyjw. Ujwt éq
ngf yfs uzjxyt js vzj jwfs lnlfsyjx, vzj sn tíf qfx athjx ij xz jxhzijwt
Xfshmt sn jhmfgf ij ajw, fzsvzj jxyfgf df gnjs hjwhf, qt vzj jwfs; fsyjx,
ngf inhnjsit js athjx fqyfx:

-Sts kzdfijx, htgfwijx d anqjx hwnfyzwfx, vzj zs xtqt hfgfqqjwt jx jq vzj
tx fhtrjyj.

Qjafsyóxj js jxyt zs utht ij anjsyt d qfx lwfsijx fxufx htrjsefwts f
rtajwxj, qt hzfq anxyt utw its Vznotyj, inot:

-Uzjx, fzsvzj rtaánx ráx gwfetx vzj qtx ijq lnlfsyj Gwnfwjt, rj qt mfgénx
ij uflfw.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, d jshtrjsiásitxj ij ytit htwfeós f xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf,
uninésitqj vzj js yfq ywfshj qj xthtwwnjxj, gnjs hzgnjwyt ij xz wtijqf, hts
qf qfsef js jq wnxywj, fwwjrjynó f ytit jq lfqtuj ij Wthnsfsyj d jrgnxynó
hts jq uwnrjwt rtqnst vzj jxyfgf ijqfsyj; d, iásitqj zsf qfsefif js jq
fxuf, qf atqanó jq anjsyt hts yfsyf kzwnf vzj mnet qf qfsef ujifetx,
qqjaásitxj ywfx xí fq hfgfqqt d fq hfgfqqjwt, vzj kzj wtifsit rzd rfqywjhmt
utw jq hfrut. Fhzinó Xfshmt Ufsef f xthtwwjwqj, f ytit jq htwwjw ij xz
fxst, d hzfsit qqjló mfqqó vzj st xj utiíf rjsjfw: yfq kzj jq ltquj vzj int
hts éq Wthnsfsyj.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! -inot Xfshmt-. ¿St qj inoj dt f azjxywf rjwhji vzj rnwfxj
gnjs qt vzj mfhíf, vzj st jwfs xnst rtqnstx ij anjsyt, d st qt utiíf
nlstwfw xnst vznjs qqjafxj tywtx yfqjx js qf hfgjef?

-Hfqqf, frnlt Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj qfx htxfx ij qf lzjwwf,
ráx vzj tywfx, jxyás xzojyfx f htsynszf rzifsef; hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt unjsxt,
d jx fxí ajwifi, vzj fvzjq xfgnt Kwjxyós vzj rj wtgó jq futxjsyt d qtx
qngwtx mf azjqyt jxytx lnlfsyjx js rtqnstx utw vznyfwrj qf lqtwnf ij xz
ajshnrnjsyt: yfq jx qf jsjrnxyfi vzj rj ynjsj; rfx, fq hfgt fq hfgt, mfs ij
utijw utht xzx rfqfx fwyjx htsywf qf gtsifi ij rn jxufif.

-Intx qt mflf htrt uzjij -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef.

D, fdziásitqj f qjafsyfw, ytwsó f xzgnw xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, vzj rjint
ijxufqifit jxyfgf. D, mfgqfsit js qf ufxfif fajsyzwf, xnlznjwts jq hfrnst
ijq Uzjwyt Qáunhj, utwvzj fqqí ijhíf its Vznotyj vzj st jwf utxngqj ijofw
ij mfqqfwxj rzhmfx d inajwxfx fajsyzwfx, utw xjw qzlfw rzd ufxfojwt; xnst
vzj ngf rzd ujxfwtxt utw mfgjwqj kfqyfit qf qfsef; d, inhnésitxjqt f xz
jxhzijwt, qj inot:

-Dt rj fhzjwit mfgjw qjíit vzj zs hfgfqqjwt jxufñtq, qqfrfit Injlt Uéwje ij
Afwlfx, mfgnésitxjqj js zsf gfyfqqf wtyt qf jxufif, ijxlfoó ij zsf jshnsf
zs ujxfit wfrt t ywtsht, d hts éq mnet yfqjx htxfx fvzjq iíf, d rfhmfhó
yfsytx rtwtx, vzj qj vzjió utw xtgwjstrgwj Rfhmzhf, d fxí éq htrt xzx
ijhjsinjsyjx xj qqfrfwts, ijxij fvzjq iíf js fijqfsyj, Afwlfx d Rfhmzhf.
Mjyj inhmt jxyt, utwvzj ij qf uwnrjwf jshnsf t wtgqj vzj xj rj ijufwj
unjsxt ijxlfofw tywt ywtsht yfq d yfs gzjst htrt fvzéq, vzj rj nrflnst d
unjsxt mfhjw hts éq yfqjx mfefñfx, vzj yú yj yjslfx utw gnjs fktwyzsfit ij
mfgjw rjwjhnit ajsnw f ajqqfx d f xjw yjxynlt ij htxfx vzj fujsfx utiwás
xjw hwjíifx.

-F qf rfst ij Intx -inot Xfshmt-; dt qt hwjt ytit fxí htrt azjxywf rjwhji
qt inhj; ujwt jsijwéhjxj zs utht, vzj ufwjhj vzj af ij rjint qfit, d ijgj
ij xjw ijq rtqnrnjsyt ij qf hfíif.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d xn st rj vzjot ijq itqtw, jx
utwvzj st jx ifit f qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzjofwxj ij mjwnif fqlzsf,
fzsvzj xj qj xfqlfs qfx ywnufx utw jqqf.

-Xn jxt jx fxí, st yjslt dt vzé wjuqnhfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt xfgj Intx
xn dt rj mtqlfwf vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj vzjofwf hzfsit fqlzsf htxf qj
itqnjwf. Ij rí xé ijhnw vzj rj mj ij vzjofw ijq ráx ujvzjñt itqtw vzj
yjslf, xn df st xj jsynjsij yfrgnés hts qtx jxhzijwtx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx jxt ijq st vzjofwxj.

St xj ijoó ij wjíw its Vznotyj ij qf xnruqnhnifi ij xz jxhzijwt; d fxí, qj
ijhqfwó vzj utiíf rzd gnjs vzjofwxj, htrt d hzfsit vznxnjxj, xns lfsf t hts
jqqf; vzj mfxyf jsytshjx st mfgíf qjíit htxf js htsywfwnt js qf twijs ij
hfgfqqjwíf. Iíotqj Xfshmt vzj rnwfxj vzj jwf mtwf ij htrjw. Wjxutsinóqj xz
frt vzj utw jsytshjx st qj mfhíf rjsjxyjw; vzj htrnjxj éq hzfsit xj qj
fsytofxj. Hts jxyf qnhjshnf, xj fhtrtió Xfshmt qt rjotw vzj uzit xtgwj xz
ozrjsyt, d, xfhfsit ij qfx fqktwofx qt vzj js jqqfx mfgíf uzjxyt, ngf
hfrnsfsit d htrnjsit ijywáx ij xz frt rzd ij xz jxufhnt, d ij hzfsit js
hzfsit jrunsfgf qf gtyf, hts yfsyt lzxyt, vzj qj uzinjwf jsaninfw jq ráx
wjlfqfit gtijltsjwt ij Ráqflf. D, js yfsyt vzj éq ngf ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf
rjszijfsit ywfltx, st xj qj fhtwifgf ij snslzsf uwtrjxf vzj xz frt qj
mzgnjxj mjhmt, sn yjsíf utw snslús ywfgfot, xnst utw rzhmt ijxhfsxt, fsifw
gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx, utw ujqnlwtxfx vzj kzjxjs.

Js wjxtqzhnós, fvzjqqf sthmj qf ufxfwts jsywj zstx áwgtqjx, d ijq zst
ijqqtx ijxlfoó its Vznotyj zs wfrt xjht vzj hfxn qj utiíf xjwanw ij qfsef,
d uzxt js éq jq mnjwwt vzj vznyó ij qf vzj xj qj mfgíf vzjgwfit. Ytif
fvzjqqf sthmj st izwrnó its Vznotyj, ujsxfsit js xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, utw
fhtrtifwxj f qt vzj mfgíf qjíit js xzx qngwtx, hzfsit qtx hfgfqqjwtx
ufxfgfs xns itwrnw rzhmfx sthmjx js qfx kqtwjxyfx d ijxutgqfitx,
jsywjyjsnitx hts qfx rjrtwnfx ij xzx xjñtwfx. St qf ufxó fsxí Xfshmt Ufsef,
vzj, htrt yjsíf jq jxyórflt qqjst, d st ij flzf ij hmnhtwnf, ij zs xzjñt xj
qf qqjaó ytif; d st kzjwfs ufwyj ufwf ijxujwyfwqj, xn xz frt st qt qqfrfwf,
qtx wfdtx ijq xtq, vzj qj ifgfs js jq wtxywt, sn jq hfsyt ij qfx fajx, vzj,
rzhmfx d rzd wjlthnofifrjsyj, qf ajsnif ijq szjat iíf xfqzifgfs. Fq
qjafsyfwxj int zs ynjsyt f qf gtyf, d mfqqóqf fqlt ráx kqfhf vzj qf sthmj
fsyjx; d fkqnlnóxjqj jq htwfeós, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj st qqjafgfs hfrnst ij
wjrjinfw yfs uwjxyt xz kfqyf. St vznxt ijxfdzsfwxj its Vznotyj, utwvzj,
htrt jxyá inhmt, int js xzxyjsyfwxj ij xfgwtxfx rjrtwnfx. Ytwsfwts f xz
htrjsefit hfrnst ijq Uzjwyt Qáunhj, d f tgwf ij qfx ywjx ijq iíf qj
ijxhzgwnjwts.

-Fvzí -inot, js anésitqj, its Vznotyj- utijrtx, mjwrfst Xfshmt Ufsef, rjyjw
qfx rfstx mfxyf qtx htitx js jxyt vzj qqfrfs fajsyzwfx. Rfx fianjwyj vzj,
fzsvzj rj ajfx js qtx rfdtwjx ujqnlwtx ijq rzsit, st mfx ij utsjw rfst f yz
jxufif ufwf ijkjsijwrj, xn df st anjwjx vzj qtx vzj rj tkjsijs jx hfsfqqf d
ljsyj gfof, vzj js yfq hfxt gnjs uzjijx fdzifwrj; ujwt xn kzjwjs
hfgfqqjwtx, js snslzsf rfsjwf yj jx qíhnyt sn htshjinit utw qfx qjdjx ij
hfgfqqjwíf vzj rj fdzijx, mfxyf vzj xjfx fwrfit hfgfqqjwt.

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj azjxywf rjwhji xjf rzd gnjs
tgjinhnit js jxyt; d ráx, vzj dt ij rít rj xtd ufhíknht d jsjrnlt ij
rjyjwrj js wznitx sn ujsijshnfx. Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj, js qt vzj ythfwj f
ijkjsijw rn ujwxtsf, st yjsiwé rzhmf hzjsyf hts jxfx qjdjx, uzjx qfx
inansfx d mzrfsfx ujwrnyjs vzj hfif zst xj ijknjsif ij vznjs vznxnjwj
flwfanfwqj.

-St inlt dt rjstx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; ujwt, js jxyt ij fdzifwrj htsywf
hfgfqqjwtx, mfx ij yjsjw f wfdf yzx sfyzwfqjx írujyzx.

-Inlt vzj fxí qt mfwé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d vzj lzfwifwé jxj uwjhjyt yfs
gnjs htrt jq iíf ijq itrnslt.

Jxyfsit js jxyfx wfetsjx, fxtrfwts utw jq hfrnst itx kwfnqjx ij qf twijs ij
Xfs Gjsnyt, hfgfqqjwtx xtgwj itx iwtrjifwntx: vzj st jwfs ráx ujvzjñfx itx
rzqfx js vzj ajsífs. Ywfífs xzx fsytotx ij hfrnst d xzx vznyfxtqjx. Ijywáx
ijqqtx ajsíf zs hthmj, hts hzfywt t hnsht ij f hfgfqqt vzj qj fhtrufñfgfs d
itx rtetx ij rzqfx f unj. Ajsíf js jq hthmj, htrt ijxuzéx xj xzut, zsf
xjñtwf anehfísf, vzj ngf f Xjanqqf, itsij jxyfgf xz rfwnit, vzj ufxfgf f
qfx Nsinfx hts zs rzd mtswtxt hfwlt. St ajsífs qtx kwfnqjx hts jqqf, fzsvzj
ngfs jq rjxrt hfrnst; rfx, fujsfx qtx inanxó its Vznotyj, hzfsit inot f xz
jxhzijwt:

-T dt rj jslfñt, t éxyf mf ij xjw qf ráx kfrtxf fajsyzwf vzj xj mfdf anxyt;
utwvzj fvzjqqtx gzqytx sjlwtx vzj fqqí ufwjhjs ijgjs ij xjw, d xts xns
izif, fqlzstx jshfsyfitwjx vzj qqjafs mzwyfif fqlzsf uwnshjxf js fvzjq
hthmj, d jx rjsjxyjw ijxmfhjw jxyj yzjwyt f ytit rn utijwít.

-Ujtw xjwá jxyt vzj qtx rtqnstx ij anjsyt -inot Xfshmt-. Rnwj, xjñtw, vzj
fvzéqqtx xts kwfnqjx ij Xfs Gjsnyt, d jq hthmj ijgj ij xjw ij fqlzsf ljsyj
ufxfojwf. Rnwj vzj inlt vzj rnwj gnjs qt vzj mfhj, st xjf jq infgqt vzj qj
jslfñj.

-Df yj mj inhmt, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj xfgjx utht ij fhmfvzj
ij fajsyzwfx; qt vzj dt inlt jx ajwifi, d fmtwf qt ajwáx.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj fijqfsyó d xj uzxt js qf rnyfi ijq hfrnst utw itsij
qtx kwfnqjx ajsífs, d, js qqjlfsit yfs hjwhf vzj f éq qj ufwjhnó vzj qj
utiwífs tíw qt vzj inojxj, js fqyf ate inot:

-Ljsyj jsinfgqfif d ijxhtrzsfq, ijofi qzjlt fq uzsyt qfx fqyfx uwnshjxfx
vzj js jxj hthmj qqjaánx ktwefifx; xn st, fufwjoftx f wjhjgnw uwjxyf
rzjwyj, utw ozxyt hfxynlt ij azjxywfx rfqfx tgwfx.

Ijyzanjwts qtx kwfnqjx qfx wnjsifx, d vzjifwts firnwfitx, fxí ij qf knlzwf
ij its Vznotyj htrt ij xzx wfetsjx, f qfx hzfqjx wjxutsinjwts:

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, stxtywtx st xtrtx jsinfgqfitx sn ijxhtrzsfqjx, xnst itx
wjqnlntxtx ij Xfs Gjsnyt vzj afrtx szjxywt hfrnst, d st xfgjrtx xn js jxyj
hthmj anjsjs, t st, snslzsfx ktwefifx uwnshjxfx.

-Ufwf htsrnlt st mfd ufqfgwfx gqfsifx, vzj df dt tx htsteht, kjrjsynif
hfsfqqf -inot its Vznotyj.

D, xns jxujwfw ráx wjxuzjxyf, unhó f Wthnsfsyj d, qf qfsef gfof, fwwjrjynó
htsywf jq uwnrjwt kwfnqj, hts yfsyf kzwnf d ijszjit vzj, xn jq kwfnqj st xj
ijofwf hfjw ij qf rzqf, éq qj mnhnjwf ajsnw fq xzjqt rfq ij xz lwfit, d fzs
rfqkjwnit, xn st hfdjwf rzjwyt. Jq xjlzsit wjqnlntxt, vzj ant ijq rtit vzj
ywfyfgfs f xz htrufñjwt, uzxt unjwsfx fq hfxynqqt ij xz gzjsf rzqf, d
htrjseó f htwwjw utw fvzjqqf hfrufñf, ráx qnljwt vzj jq rjxrt anjsyt.

Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj ant js jq xzjqt fq kwfnqj, fujásitxj qnljwfrjsyj ij xz
fxst, fwwjrjynó f éq d qj htrjseó f vznyfw qtx mágnytx. Qqjlfwts js jxyt
itx rtetx ij qtx kwfnqjx d uwjlzsyáwtsqj vzj utw vzé qj ijxszifgf.
Wjxutsinóqjx Xfshmt vzj fvzjqqt qj ythfgf f éq qnlíynrfrjsyj, htrt ijxutotx
ij qf gfyfqqf vzj xz xjñtw its Vznotyj mfgíf lfsfit. Qtx rtetx, vzj st
xfgífs ij gzwqfx, sn jsyjsiífs fvzjqqt ij ijxutotx sn gfyfqqfx, anjsit vzj
df its Vznotyj jxyfgf ijxanfit ij fqqí, mfgqfsit hts qfx vzj js jq hthmj
ajsífs, fwwjrjynjwts hts Xfshmt d injwts hts éq js jq xzjqt; d, xns ijofwqj
ujqt js qfx gfwgfx, qj rtqnjwts f hthjx d qj ijofwts yjsinit js jq xzjqt
xns fqnjsyt sn xjsynit. D, xns ijyjsjwxj zs uzsyt, ytwsó f xzgnw jq kwfnqj,
ytit yjrjwtxt d fhtgfwifit d xns htqtw js jq wtxywt; d, hzfsit xj ant f
hfgfqqt, unhó ywfx xz htrufñjwt, vzj zs gzjs jxufhnt ij fqqí qj jxyfgf
flzfwifsit, d jxujwfsit js vzé ufwfgf fvzjq xtgwjxfqyt; d, xns vzjwjw
flzfwifw jq kns ij ytit fvzjq htrjsefit xzhjxt, xnlznjwts xz hfrnst,
mfhnésitxj ráx hwzhjx vzj xn qqjafwfs fq infgqt f qfx jxufqifx.

Its Vznotyj jxyfgf, htrt xj mf inhmt, mfgqfsit hts qf xjñtwf ijq hthmj,
inhnésitqj:

-Qf azjxywf kjwrtxzwf, xjñtwf ríf, uzjij kfhjw ij xz ujwxtsf qt vzj ráx qj
ansnjwj js yfqfsyj, utwvzj df qf xtgjwgnf ij azjxywtx wtgfitwjx dfhj utw jq
xzjqt, ijwwngfif utw jxyj rn kzjwyj gwfet; d, utwvzj st ujsénx utw xfgjw jq
strgwj ij azjxywt qngjwyfitw, xfgji vzj dt rj qqfrt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj d fajsyzwjwt, d hfzynat ij qf xns ufw d mjwrtxf
itñf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt; d, js uflt ijq gjsjknhnt vzj ij rí mfgénx
wjhjgnit, st vznjwt tywf htxf xnst vzj atqaánx fq Ytgtxt, d vzj ij rn ufwyj
tx uwjxjsyénx fsyj jxyf xjñtwf d qj inlánx qt vzj utw azjxywf qngjwyfi mj
kjhmt.

Ytit jxyt vzj its Vznotyj ijhíf jxhzhmfgf zs jxhzijwt ij qtx vzj jq hthmj
fhtrufñfgfs, vzj jwf anehfíst; jq hzfq, anjsit vzj st vzjwíf ijofw ufxfw jq
hthmj fijqfsyj, xnst vzj ijhíf vzj qzjlt mfgíf ij ifw qf azjqyf fq Ytgtxt,
xj kzj ufwf its Vznotyj d, fxnésitqj ij qf qfsef, qj inot, js rfqf qjslzf
hfxyjqqfsf d ujtw anehfísf, ijxyf rfsjwf:

-Fsif, hfgfqqjwt vzj rfq fsijx; utw jq Intx vzj hwnórj, vzj, xn st ijofx
hthmj, fxí yj rfyfx htrt jxyáx fmí anehfíst.

Jsyjsinóqj rzd gnjs its Vznotyj, d hts rzhmt xtxnjlt qj wjxutsinó:

-Xn kzjwfx hfgfqqjwt, htrt st qt jwjx, df dt mzgnjwf hfxynlfit yz xfsije d
fywjanrnjsyt, hfzynaf hwnfyzwf.

F qt hzfq wjuqnhó jq anehfíst:

-¿Dt st hfgfqqjwt? Ozwt f Intx yfs rnjsyjx htrt hwnxynfst. Xn qfsef
fwwtofx d jxufif xfhfx, ¡jq flzf hzás uwjxyt ajwáx vzj fq lfyt qqjafx!
Anehfíst utw ynjwwf, mnifqlt utw rfw, mnifqlt utw jq infgqt; d rnjsyjx vzj
rnwf xn tywf inhjx htxf.

-¡Fmtwf qt ajwjijx, inot Flwfojx! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

D, fwwtofsit qf qfsef js jq xzjqt, xfhó xz jxufif d jrgwfeó xz wtijqf, d
fwwjrjynó fq anehfíst hts ijyjwrnsfhnós ij vznyfwqj qf anif. Jq anehfíst,
vzj fxí qj ant ajsnw, fzsvzj vznxnjwf fujfwxj ij qf rzqf, vzj, utw xjw ij
qfx rfqfx ij fqvznqjw, st mfgíf vzj knfw js jqqf, st uzit mfhjw tywf htxf
xnst xfhfw xz jxufif; ujwt faístqj gnjs vzj xj mfqqó ozsyt fq hthmj, ij
itsij uzit ytrfw zsf fqrtmfif vzj qj xnwanó ij jxhzit, d qzjlt xj kzjwts jq
zst ufwf jq tywt, htrt xn kzjwfs itx rtwyfqjx jsjrnltx. Qf ijráx ljsyj
vznxnjwf utsjwqtx js ufe, rfx st uzit, utwvzj ijhíf jq anehfíst js xzx rfq
ywfgfifx wfetsjx vzj xn st qj ijofgfs fhfgfw xz gfyfqqf, vzj éq rnxrt mfgíf
ij rfyfw f xz frf d f ytif qf ljsyj vzj xj qt jxytwgfxj. Qf xjñtwf ijq
hthmj, firnwfif d yjrjwtxf ij qt vzj ajíf, mnet fq hthmjwt vzj xj ijxanfxj
ij fqqí fqlús utht, d ijxij qjotx xj uzxt f rnwfw qf wnlzwtxf htsynjsif, js
jq inxhzwxt ij qf hzfq int jq anehfíst zsf lwfs hzhmnqqfif f its Vznotyj
jshnrf ij zs mtrgwt, utw jshnrf ij qf wtijqf, vzj, f iáwxjqf xns ijkjsxf,
qj fgwnjwf mfxyf qf hnsyzwf. Its Vznotyj, vzj xnsynó qf ujxfizrgwj ij fvzjq
ijxfktwfit ltquj, int zsf lwfs ate, inhnjsit:

-¡Tm xjñtwf ij rn fqrf, Izqhnsjf, kqtw ij qf kjwrtxzwf, xthtwwji f jxyj
azjxywt hfgfqqjwt, vzj, utw xfynxkfhjw f qf azjxywf rzhmf gtsifi, js jxyj
wnlzwtxt ywfshj xj mfqqf!

Jq ijhnw jxyt, d jq fuwjyfw qf jxufif, d jq hzgwnwxj gnjs ij xz wtijqf, d
jq fwwjrjyjw fq anehfíst, ytit kzj js zs ynjrut, qqjafsit ijyjwrnsfhnós ij
fajsyzwfwqt ytit f qf ij zs ltquj xtqt.

Jq anehfíst, vzj fxí qj ant ajsnw htsywf éq, gnjs jsyjsinó utw xz ijszjit
xz htwfoj, d ijyjwrnsó ij mfhjw qt rjxrt vzj its Vznotyj; d fxí, qj flzfwió
gnjs hzgnjwyt ij xz fqrtmfif, xns utijw wtijfw qf rzqf f zsf sn f tywf
ufwyj; vzj df, ij uzwt hfsxfif d st mjhmf f xjrjofsyjx snñjwífx, st utiíf
ifw zs ufxt.

Ajsíf, uzjx, htrt xj mf inhmt, its Vznotyj htsywf jq hfzyt anehfíst, hts qf
jxufif js fqyt, hts ijyjwrnsfhnós ij fgwnwqj utw rjint, d jq anehfíst qj
flzfwifgf fsxnrjxrt qjafsyfif qf jxufif d fktwwfit hts xz fqrtmfif, d ytitx
qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx jxyfgfs yjrjwtxtx d htqlfitx ij qt vzj mfgíf ij xzhjijw
ij fvzjqqtx yfrfñtx ltqujx hts vzj xj frjsfefgfs; d qf xjñtwf ijq hthmj d
qfx ijráx hwnfifx xzdfx jxyfgfs mfhnjsit rnq atytx d tkwjhnrnjsytx f ytifx
qfx nráljsjx d hfxfx ij ijathnós ij Jxufñf, utwvzj Intx qngwfxj f xz
jxhzijwt d f jqqfx ij fvzjq yfs lwfsij ujqnlwt js vzj xj mfqqfgfs.

Ujwt jxyá jq ifñt ij ytit jxyt vzj js jxyj uzsyt d yéwrnst ijof ujsinjsyj
jq fzytw ijxyf mnxytwnf jxyf gfyfqqf, inxhzquásitxj vzj st mfqqó ráx
jxhwnyt ijxyfx mfefñfx ij its Vznotyj ij qfx vzj ijof wjkjwnifx. Gnjs jx
ajwifi vzj jq xjlzsit fzytw ijxyf tgwf st vznxt hwjjw vzj yfs hzwntxf
mnxytwnf jxyzanjxj jsywjlfif f qfx qjdjx ijq tqanit, sn vzj mzgnjxjs xnit
yfs utht hzwntxtx qtx nsljsntx ij qf Rfshmf vzj st yzanjxjs js xzx fwhmnatx
t js xzx jxhwnytwntx fqlzstx ufujqjx vzj ijxyj kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt ywfyfxjs; d
fxí, hts jxyf nrflnsfhnós, st xj ijxjxujwó ij mfqqfw jq kns ijxyf fufhngqj
mnxytwnf, jq hzfq, xnésitqj jq hnjqt kfatwfgqj, qj mfqqó ijq rtit vzj xj
htsyfwá js qf xjlzsif ufwyj.

Xjlzsif ufwyj ijq nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf





Hfuíyzqt NC. Itsij xj htshqzdj d if kns f qf jxyzujsif gfyfqqf vzj jq
lfqqfwit anehfíst d jq afqnjsyj rfshmjlt yzanjwts


Ijofrtx js qf uwnrjwf ufwyj ijxyf mnxytwnf fq afqjwtxt anehfíst d fq kfrtxt
its Vznotyj hts qfx jxufifx fqyfx d ijxszifx, js lznxf ij ijxhfwlfw itx
kzwngzsitx kjsinjsyjx, yfqjx vzj, xn js qqjst xj fhjwyfgfs, utw qt rjstx
xj inaninwífs d kjsijwífs ij fwwngf fgfot d fgwnwífs htrt zsf lwfsfif; d
vzj js fvzjq uzsyt yfs izitxt ufwó d vzjió ijxywtshfif yfs xfgwtxf
mnxytwnf, xns vzj stx injxj stynhnf xz fzytw iósij xj utiwíf mfqqfw qt vzj
ijqqf kfqyfgf.

Hfzxórj jxyt rzhmf ujxfizrgwj, utwvzj jq lzxyt ij mfgjw qjíit yfs utht xj
atqaíf js inxlzxyt, ij ujsxfw jq rfq hfrnst vzj xj tkwjhíf ufwf mfqqfw qt
rzhmt vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, kfqyfgf ij yfs xfgwtxt hzjsyt. Ufwjhnórj htxf
nrutxngqj d kzjwf ij ytif gzjsf htxyzrgwj vzj f yfs gzjs hfgfqqjwt qj
mzgnjxj kfqyfit fqlús xfgnt vzj ytrfwf f hfwlt jq jxhwjgnw xzx szshf anxyfx
mfefñfx, htxf vzj st kfqyó f snslzst ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx,

   ij qtx vzj inhjs qfx ljsyjx
   vzj afs f xzx fajsyzwfx,

utwvzj hfif zst ijqqtx yjsíf zst t itx xfgntx, htrt ij rtqij, vzj st
xtqfrjsyj jxhwngífs xzx mjhmtx, xnst vzj unsyfgfs xzx ráx rísnrtx
ujsxfrnjsytx d snñjwífx, utw ráx jxhtsinifx vzj kzjxjs; d st mfgíf ij xjw
yfs ijxinhmfit yfs gzjs hfgfqqjwt, vzj qj kfqyfxj f éq qt vzj xtgwó f
Uqfynw d f tywtx xjrjofsyjx. D fxí, st utiíf nshqnsfwrj f hwjjw vzj yfs
lfqqfwif mnxytwnf mzgnjxj vzjifit rfshf d jxywtujfif; d jhmfgf qf hzquf f
qf rfqnlsnifi ijq ynjrut, ijatwfitw d htsxzrnitw ij ytifx qfx htxfx, jq
hzfq, t qf yjsíf thzqyf t htsxzrnif.

Utw tywf ufwyj, rj ufwjhíf vzj, uzjx jsywj xzx qngwtx xj mfgífs mfqqfit yfs
rtijwstx htrt Ijxjslfñt ij hjqtx d Snskfx d Ufxytwjx ij Mjsfwjx, vzj
yfrgnés xz mnxytwnf ijgíf ij xjw rtijwsf; d vzj, df vzj st jxyzanjxj
jxhwnyf, jxyfwíf js qf rjrtwnf ij qf ljsyj ij xz fqijf d ij qfx f jqqf
hnwhzsajhnsfx. Jxyf nrflnsfhnós rj ywfíf htskzxt d ijxjtxt ij xfgjw, wjfq d
ajwifijwfrjsyj, ytif qf anif d rnqflwtx ij szjxywt kfrtxt jxufñtq its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, qze d jxujot ij qf hfgfqqjwíf rfshmjlf, d jq uwnrjwt
vzj js szjxywf jifi d js jxytx yfs hfqfrnytxtx ynjrutx xj uzxt fq ywfgfot d
jojwhnhnt ij qfx fsifsyjx fwrfx, d fq ijxkfhjw flwfantx, xthtwwjw anzifx,
frufwfw itshjqqfx, ij fvzjqqfx vzj fsifgfs hts xzx fetyjx d ufqfkwjsjx, d
hts ytif xz anwlnsnifi f hzjxyfx, ij rtsyj js rtsyj d ij afqqj js afqqj;
vzj, xn st jwf vzj fqlús ktqqós, t fqlús anqqfst ij mfhmf d hfujqqnsf, t
fqlús ijxhtrzsfq lnlfsyj qfx ktwefgf, itshjqqf mzgt js qtx ufxfitx ynjrutx
vzj, fq hfgt ij thmjsyf fñtx, vzj js ytitx jqqtx st izwrnó zs iíf ijgfot ij
yjofit, d xj kzj yfs jsyjwf f qf xjuzqyzwf htrt qf rfiwj vzj qf mfgíf
ufwnit. Inlt, uzjx, vzj, utw jxytx d tywtx rzhmtx wjxujytx, jx inlst
szjxywt lfqqfwit Vznotyj ij htsynszfx d rjrtwfgqjx fqfgfsefx; d fzs f rí st
xj rj ijgjs sjlfw, utw jq ywfgfot d inqnljshnf vzj uzxj js gzxhfw jq kns
ijxyf flwfifgqj mnxytwnf; fzsvzj gnjs xé vzj xn jq hnjqt, jq hfxt d qf
ktwyzsf st rj fdzifs, jq rzsit vzjifwá kfqyt d xns jq ufxfynjrut d lzxyt
vzj gnjs hfxn itx mtwfx utiwá yjsjw jq vzj hts fyjshnós qf qjdjwj. Ufxó,
uzjx, jq mfqqfwqf js jxyf rfsjwf:

Jxyfsit dt zs iíf js jq Fqhfsá ij Ytqjit, qqjló zs rzhmfhmt f ajsijw zstx
hfwyfufhntx d ufujqjx anjotx f zs xjijwt; d, htrt dt xtd fknhntsfit f qjjw,
fzsvzj xjfs qtx ufujqjx wtytx ij qfx hfqqjx, qqjafit ijxyf rn sfyzwfq
nshqnsfhnós, ytré zs hfwyfufhnt ij qtx vzj jq rzhmfhmt ajsiíf, d anqj hts
hfwfhyjwjx vzj htsthí xjw fwágnltx. D, uzjxyt vzj, fzsvzj qtx htsthíf, st
qtx xfgíf qjjw, fsizaj rnwfsit xn ufwjhíf utw fqqí fqlús rtwnxht fqofrnfit
vzj qtx qjdjxj; d st kzj rzd inknhzqytxt mfqqfw nsyéwuwjyj xjrjofsyj, uzjx,
fzsvzj qj gzxhfwf ij tywf rjotw d ráx fsynlzf qjslzf, qj mfqqfwf. Js kns,
qf xzjwyj rj ijufwó zst, vzj, inhnésitqj rn ijxjt d utsnésitqj jq qngwt js
qfx rfstx, qj fgwnó utw rjint, d, qjdjsit zs utht js éq, xj htrjseó f wjíw.

Uwjlzsyéqj dt vzj ij vzé xj wjíf, d wjxutsinórj vzj ij zsf htxf vzj yjsíf
fvzjq qngwt jxhwnyf js jq rfwljs utw fstyfhnós. Iíojqj vzj rj qf inojxj; d
éq, xns ijofw qf wnxf, inot:

-Jxyá, htrt mj inhmt, fvzí js jq rfwljs jxhwnyt jxyt: "Jxyf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, yfsyfx ajhjx js jxyf mnxytwnf wjkjwnif, inhjs vzj yzat qf rjotw
rfst ufwf xfqfw uzjwhtx vzj tywf rzojw ij ytif qf Rfshmf".

Hzfsit dt tí ijhnw "Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt", vzjié fyósnyt d xzxujsxt, utwvzj
qzjlt xj rj wjuwjxjsyó vzj fvzjqqtx hfwyfufhntx htsyjsífs qf mnxytwnf ij
its Vznotyj. Hts jxyf nrflnsfhnós, qj in uwnjxf vzj qjdjxj jq uwnshnunt, d,
mfhnésitqt fsxí, atqanjsit ij nruwtanxt jq fwágnlt js hfxyjqqfst, inot vzj
ijhíf: Mnxytwnf ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jxhwnyf utw Hnij Mfrjyj
Gjsjsljqn, mnxytwnfitw fwágnlt. Rzhmf inxhwjhnós kzj rjsjxyjw ufwf
inxnrzqfw jq htsyjsyt vzj wjhjgí hzfsit qqjló f rnx tíitx jq yíyzqt ijq
qngwt; d, xfqyjásitxjqj fq xjijwt, htruwé fq rzhmfhmt ytitx qtx ufujqjx d
hfwyfufhntx utw rjint wjfq; vzj, xn éq yzanjwf inxhwjhnós d xzunjwf qt vzj
dt qtx ijxjfgf, gnjs xj uzinjwf uwtrjyjw d qqjafw ráx ij xjnx wjfqjx ij qf
htruwf. Fufwyérj qzjlt hts jq rtwnxht utw jq hqfzxywt ij qf nlqjxnf rfdtw,
d wtlzéqj rj atqanjxj fvzjqqtx hfwyfufhntx, ytitx qtx vzj ywfyfgfs ij its
Vznotyj, js qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf, xns vznyfwqjx sn fñfinwqjx sfif,
tkwjhnésitqj qf uflf vzj éq vznxnjxj. Htsyjsyóxj hts itx fwwtgfx ij ufxfx d
itx kfsjlfx ij ywnlt, d uwtrjynó ij ywfizhnwqtx gnjs d knjqrjsyj d hts
rzhmf gwjajifi. Ujwt dt, utw kfhnqnyfw ráx jq sjlthnt d utw st ijofw ij qf
rfst yfs gzjs mfqqfelt, qj ywzoj f rn hfxf, itsij js utht ráx ij rjx d
rjint qf ywfizot ytif, ijq rjxrt rtit vzj fvzí xj wjknjwj.

Jxyfgf js jq uwnrjwt hfwyfufhnt, unsyfif rzd fq sfyzwfq, qf gfyfqqf ij its
Vznotyj hts jq anehfíst, uzjxytx js qf rjxrf utxyzwf vzj qf mnxytwnf
hzjsyf, qjafsyfifx qfx jxufifx, jq zst hzgnjwyt ij xz wtijqf, jq tywt ij qf
fqrtmfif, d qf rzqf ijq anehfíst yfs fq anat, vzj jxyfgf rtxywfsit xjw ij
fqvznqjw f ynwt ij gfqqjxyf. Yjsíf f qtx unjx jxhwnyt jq anehfíst zs yíyzqt
vzj ijhíf: Its Xfshmt ij Feujynf, vzj, xns izif, ijgíf ij xjw xz strgwj, d
f qtx unjx ij Wthnsfsyj jxyfgf tywt vzj ijhíf: Its Vznotyj. Jxyfgf
Wthnsfsyj rfwfanqqtxfrjsyj unsyfit, yfs qfwlt d yjsinit, yfs fyjszfit d
kqfht, hts yfsyt jxunsfet, yfs méynht htsknwrfit, vzj rtxywfgf gnjs fq
ijxhzgnjwyt hts hzásyf fiajwyjshnf d uwtuwnjifi xj qj mfgíf uzjxyt jq
strgwj ij Wthnsfsyj. Ozsyt f éq jxyfgf Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj yjsíf ijq hfgjxywt
f xz fxst, f qtx unjx ijq hzfq jxyfgf tywt wéyzqt vzj ijhíf: Xfshmt Efshfx,
d ijgíf ij xjw vzj yjsíf, f qt vzj rtxywfgf qf unsyzwf, qf gfwwnlf lwfsij,
jq yfqqj htwyt d qfx efshfx qfwlfx; d utw jxyt xj qj ijgnó ij utsjw strgwj
ij Ufsef d ij Efshfx, vzj hts jxytx itx xtgwjstrgwjx qj qqfrf fqlzsfx ajhjx
qf mnxytwnf. Tywfx fqlzsfx rjszijshnfx mfgíf vzj fiajwynw, ujwt ytifx xts
ij uthf nrutwyfshnf d vzj st mfhjs fq hfxt f qf ajwifijwf wjqfhnós ij qf
mnxytwnf; vzj snslzsf jx rfqf htrt xjf ajwifijwf.

Xn f éxyf xj qj uzjij utsjw fqlzsf tgojhnós hjwhf ij xz ajwifi, st utiwá
xjw tywf xnst mfgjw xnit xz fzytw fwágnlt, xnjsit rzd uwtunt ij qtx ij
fvzjqqf sfhnós xjw rjsynwtxtx; fzsvzj, utw xjw yfs szjxywtx jsjrnltx, fsyjx
xj uzjij jsyjsijw mfgjw vzjifit kfqyt js jqqf vzj ijrfxnfit. D fsxí rj
ufwjhj f rí, uzjx, hzfsit uzinjwf d ijgnjwf jxyjsijw qf uqzrf js qfx
fqfgfsefx ij yfs gzjs hfgfqqjwt, ufwjhj vzj ij nsizxywnf qfx ufxf js
xnqjshnt: htxf rfq mjhmf d ujtw ujsxfif, mfgnjsit d ijgnjsit xjw qtx
mnxytwnfitwjx uzsyzfqjx, ajwifijwtx d st sfif fufxntsfitx, d vzj sn jq
nsyjwéx sn jq rnjit, jq wfshtw sn qf fknhnós, st qjx mflfs ytwhjw ijq
hfrnst ij qf ajwifi, hzdf rfiwj jx qf mnxytwnf, érzqf ijq ynjrut, ijuóxnyt
ij qfx fhhntsjx, yjxynlt ij qt ufxfit, jojruqt d fanxt ij qt uwjxjsyj,
fiajwyjshnf ij qt utw ajsnw. Js éxyf xé vzj xj mfqqfwá ytit qt vzj xj
fhjwyfwj f ijxjfw js qf ráx fufhngqj; d xn fqlt gzjst js jqqf kfqyfwj, ufwf
rí yjslt vzj kzj utw hzquf ijq lfqlt ij xz fzytw, fsyjx vzj utw kfqyf ijq
xzojyt. Js kns, xz xjlzsif ufwyj, xnlznjsit qf ywfizhnós, htrjsefgf ijxyf
rfsjwf:

Uzjxyfx d qjafsyfifx js fqyt qfx htwyfitwfx jxufifx ij qtx itx afqjwtxtx d
jstofitx htrgfynjsyjx, st ufwjhíf xnst vzj jxyfgfs frjsfefsit fq hnjqt, f
qf ynjwwf d fq fgnxrt: yfq jwf jq ijszjit d htsynsjsyj vzj yjsífs. D jq
uwnrjwt vzj kzj f ijxhfwlfw jq ltquj kzj jq htqéwnht anehfíst, jq hzfq kzj
ifit hts yfsyf kzjwef d yfsyf kzwnf vzj, f st atqaéwxjqj qf jxufif js jq
hfrnst, fvzjq xtqt ltquj kzjwf gfxyfsyj ufwf ifw kns f xz wnlzwtxf
htsynjsif d f ytifx qfx fajsyzwfx ij szjxywt hfgfqqjwt; rfx qf gzjsf
xzjwyj, vzj ufwf rfdtwjx htxfx qj yjsíf lzfwifit, ytwhnó qf jxufif ij xz
htsywfwnt, ij rtit vzj, fzsvzj qj fhjwyó js jq mtrgwt nevznjwit, st qj mnet
tywt ifñt vzj ijxfwrfwqj ytit fvzjq qfit, qqjaásitqj ij hfrnst lwfs ufwyj
ij qf hjqfif, hts qf rnyfi ij qf twjof; vzj ytit jqqt hts jxufsytxf wznsf
anst fq xzjqt, ijoásitqj rzd rfqywjhmt.

¡Aáqfrj Intx, d vznés xjwá fvzjq vzj gzjsfrjsyj uzjif htsyfw fmtwf qf wfgnf
vzj jsywó js jq htwfeós ij szjxywt rfshmjlt, anésitxj ufwfw ij fvzjqqf
rfsjwf! St xj inlf ráx, xnst vzj kzj ij rfsjwf vzj xj fqeó ij szjat js qtx
jxywngtx, d, fuwjyfsit ráx qf jxufif js qfx itx rfstx, hts yfq kzwnf
ijxhfwló xtgwj jq anehfíst, fhjwyásitqj ij qqjst xtgwj qf fqrtmfif d xtgwj
qf hfgjef, vzj, xns xjw ufwyj yfs gzjsf ijkjsxf, htrt xn hfdjwf xtgwj éq
zsf rtsyfñf, htrjseó f jhmfw xfslwj utw qfx sfwnhjx, d utw qf gthf d utw
qtx tíitx, d f ifw rzjxywfx ij hfjw ij qf rzqf fgfot, ij itsij hfdjwf, xns
izif, xn st xj fgwfefwf hts jq hzjqqt; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, xfhó qtx unjx ij
qtx jxywngtx d qzjlt xtqyó qtx gwfetx; d qf rzqf, jxufsyfif ijq yjwwngqj
ltquj, int f htwwjw utw jq hfrut, d f uthtx htwhtatx int hts xz izjñt js
ynjwwf.

Jxyágfxjqt hts rzhmt xtxnjlt rnwfsit its Vznotyj, d, htrt qt ant hfjw,
xfqyó ij xz hfgfqqt d hts rzhmf qnljwjef xj qqjló f éq, d, utsnésitqj qf
uzsyf ij qf jxufif js qtx totx, qj inot vzj xj wnsinjxj; xn st, vzj qj
htwyfwíf qf hfgjef. Jxyfgf jq anehfíst yfs yzwgfit vzj st utiíf wjxutsijw
ufqfgwf, d éq qt ufxfwf rfq, xjlús jxyfgf hnjlt its Vznotyj, xn qfx xjñtwfx
ijq hthmj, vzj mfxyf jsytshjx hts lwfs ijxrfdt mfgífs rnwfit qf ujsijshnf,
st kzjwfs fitsij jxyfgf d qj uninjwfs hts rzhmt jshfwjhnrnjsyt qjx mnhnjxj
yfs lwfs rjwhji d kfatw ij ujwitsfw qf anif f fvzjq xz jxhzijwt. F qt hzfq
its Vznotyj wjxutsinó, hts rzhmt jsytst d lwfajifi:

-Utw hnjwyt, kjwrtxfx xjñtwfx, dt xtd rzd htsyjsyt ij mfhjw qt vzj rj
ujiíx; rfx mf ij xjw hts zsf htsinhnós d htshnjwyt, d jx vzj jxyj hfgfqqjwt
rj mf ij uwtrjyjw ij nw fq qzlfw ijq Ytgtxt d uwjxjsyfwxj ij rn ufwyj fsyj
qf xns ufw itñf Izqhnsjf, ufwf vzj jqqf mflf iéq qt vzj ráx kzjwj ij xz
atqzsyfi.

Qf yjrjwtxf d ijxhtsxtqfif xjñtwf, xns jsywfw js hzjsyf ij qt vzj its
Vznotyj ujiíf, d xns uwjlzsyfw vznés Izqhnsjf kzjxj, qj uwtrjynó vzj jq
jxhzijwt mfwíf ytit fvzjqqt vzj ij xz ufwyj qj kzjxj rfsifit.

-Uzjx js kj ij jxf ufqfgwf, dt st qj mfwé ráx ifñt, uzjxyt vzj rj qt yjsíf
gnjs rjwjhnit.





Hfuíyzqt C. Ij qt vzj ráx qj fanst f its Vznotyj hts jq anehfíst, d ijq
ujqnlwt js vzj xj ant hts zsf yzwgf ij dfslüjxjx


Df js jxyj ynjrut xj mfgíf qjafsyfit Xfshmt Ufsef, fqlt rfqywfyfit ij qtx
rtetx ij qtx kwfnqjx, d mfgíf jxyfit fyjsyt f qf gfyfqqf ij xz xjñtw its
Vznotyj, d wtlfgf f Intx js xz htwfeós kzjxj xjwanit ij ifwqj anytwnf d vzj
js jqqf lfsfxj fqlzsf ísxzqf ij itsij qj mnhnjxj ltgjwsfitw, htrt xj qt
mfgíf uwtrjynit. Anjsit, uzjx, df fhfgfif qf ujsijshnf, d vzj xz frt atqaíf
f xzgnw xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, qqjló f yjsjwqj jq jxywngt; d fsyjx vzj xzgnjxj xj
mnshó ij wtinqqfx ijqfsyj iéq, d, fxnésitqj ij qf rfst, xj qf gjxó d qj
inot:

-Xjf azjxywf rjwhji xjwanit, xjñtw its Vznotyj rít, ij ifwrj jq ltgnjwst ij
qf ísxzqf vzj js jxyf wnlzwtxf ujsijshnf xj mf lfsfit; vzj, utw lwfsij vzj
xjf, dt rj xnjsyt hts kzjwefx ij xfgjwqf ltgjwsfw yfq d yfs gnjs htrt tywt
vzj mfdf ltgjwsfit ísxzqfx js jq rzsit.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Fiajwyni, mjwrfst Xfshmt, vzj jxyf fajsyzwf d qfx f éxyf xjrjofsyjx st
xts fajsyzwfx ij ísxzqfx, xnst ij jshwzhnofifx, js qfx hzfqjx st xj lfsf
tywf htxf vzj xfhfw wtyf qf hfgjef t zsf twjof rjstx. Yjsji ufhnjshnf, vzj
fajsyzwfx xj tkwjhjwás itsij st xtqfrjsyj tx uzjif mfhjw ltgjwsfitw, xnst
ráx fijqfsyj.

Flwfijhnóxjqt rzhmt Xfshmt, d, gjxásitqj tywf aje qf rfst d qf kfqif ij qf
qtwnlf, qj fdzió f xzgnw xtgwj Wthnsfsyj; d éq xzgnó xtgwj xz fxst d
htrjseó f xjlznw f xz xjñtw, vzj, f ufxt ynwfit, xns ijxujinwxj sn mfgqfw
ráx hts qfx ijq hthmj, xj jsywó utw zs gtxvzj vzj fqqí ozsyt jxyfgf.
Xjlzífqj Xfshmt f ytit jq ywtyj ij xz ozrjsyt, ujwt hfrnsfgf yfsyt
Wthnsfsyj vzj, anésitxj vzjifw fywáx, qj kzj ktwetxt ifw athjx f xz frt vzj
xj flzfwifxj. Míetqt fxí its Vznotyj, yjsnjsit qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj
mfxyf vzj qqjlfxj xz hfsxfit jxhzijwt, jq hzfq, js qqjlfsit, qj inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, xjñtw, vzj xjwíf fhjwyfit nwstx f wjywfjw f fqlzsf nlqjxnf; vzj,
xjlús vzjió rfqywjhmt fvzjq hts vznjs tx htrgfynxyjx, st xjwá rzhmt vzj ijs
stynhnf ijq hfxt f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi d stx uwjsifs; d f kj vzj xn qt
mfhjs, vzj uwnrjwt vzj xfqlfrtx ij qf háwhjq vzj stx mf ij xzifw jq mtut.

-Hfqqf -inot its Vznotyj-. D ¿iósij mfx anxyt yú, t qjíit ofráx, vzj
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mfdf xnit uzjxyt fsyj qf ozxynhnf, utw ráx mtrnhnintx vzj
mzgnjxj htrjynit?

-Dt st xé sfif ij trjhnqqtx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, sn js rn anif qj hfyé f
snslzst; xóqt xé vzj qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi ynjsj vzj ajw hts qtx vzj ujqjfs js
jq hfrut, d js jxtywt st rj jsywjrjyt.

-Uzjx st yjslfx ujsf, frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj dt yj xfhfwé ij
qfx rfstx ij qtx hfqijtx, hzfsyt ráx ij qfx ij qf Mjwrfsifi. Ujwt inrj, utw
yz anif: ¿mfx anxyt ráx afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt vzj dt js ytit qt ijxhzgnjwyt ij
qf ynjwwf? ¿Mfx qjíit js mnxytwnfx tywt vzj yjslf sn mfdf yjsnit ráx gwít
js fhtrjyjw, ráx fqnjsyt js jq ujwxjajwfw, ráx ijxywjef js jq mjwnw, sn ráx
rfñf js jq ijwwngfw?

-Qf ajwifi xjf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj dt st mj qjíit snslzsf mnxytwnf
ofráx, utwvzj sn xé qjjw sn jxhwjgnw; rfx qt vzj txfwé futxyfw jx vzj ráx
fywjanit frt vzj azjxywf rjwhji dt st qj mj xjwanit js ytitx qtx iífx ij rn
anif, d vznjwf Intx vzj jxytx fywjanrnjsytx st xj uflzjs itsij yjslt
inhmt. Qt vzj qj wzjlt f azjxywf rjwhji jx vzj xj hzwj, vzj qj af rzhmf
xfslwj ij jxf twjof; vzj fvzí ywfnlt mnqfx d zs utht ij zslüjsyt gqfsht js
qfx fqktwofx.

-Ytit jxt kzjwf gnjs jxhzxfit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- xn f rí xj rj
fhtwifwf ij mfhjw zsf wjitrf ijq gáqxfrt ij Knjwfgwáx, vzj hts xtqf zsf
ltyf xj fmtwwfwfs ynjrut d rjinhnsfx.

-¿Vzé wjitrf d vzé gáqxfrt jx éxj? -inot Xfshmt Ufsef.

-Jx zs gáqxfrt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- ij vznjs yjslt qf wjhjyf js qf
rjrtwnf, hts jq hzfq st mfd vzj yjsjw yjrtw f qf rzjwyj, sn mfd ujsxfw
rtwnw ij kjwnif fqlzsf. D fsxí, hzfsit dt qj mflf d yj qj ié, st ynjsjx ráx
vzj mfhjw xnst vzj, hzfsit anjwjx vzj js fqlzsf gfyfqqf rj mfs ufwynit utw
rjint ijq hzjwut (htrt rzhmfx ajhjx xzjqj fhtsyjhjw), gtsnyfrjsyj qf ufwyj
ijq hzjwut vzj mzgnjwj hfíit js jq xzjqt, d hts rzhmf xtynqjef, fsyjx vzj
qf xfslwj xj djqj, qf utsiwáx xtgwj qf tywf rnyfi vzj vzjifwj js qf xnqqf,
fianwynjsit ij jshfofqqt nlzfqrjsyj d fq ozxyt; qzjlt rj ifwáx f gjgjw
xtqtx itx ywfltx ijq gáqxfrt vzj mj inhmt, d ajwáxrj vzjifw ráx xfst vzj
zsf rfsefsf.

-Xn jxt mfd -inot Ufsef-, dt wjszshnt ijxij fvzí jq ltgnjwst ij qf
uwtrjynif ísxzqf, d st vznjwt tywf htxf, js uflt ij rnx rzhmtx d gzjstx
xjwanhntx, xnst vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj ié qf wjhjyf ij jxj jxywjrfit qnhtw;
vzj ufwf rí yjslt vzj afqiwá qf tsef fitsijvznjwf ráx ij f itx wjfqjx, d st
mj rjsjxyjw dt ráx ufwf ufxfw jxyf anif mtswfif d ijxhfsxfifrjsyj. Ujwt jx
ij xfgjw fltwf xn ynjsj rzhmf htxyf jq mfhjqqj.

-Hts rjstx ij ywjx wjfqjx xj uzjijs mfhjw ywjx fezrgwjx -wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj.

-¡Ujhfitw ij rí! -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. ¿Uzjx f vzé flzfwif azjxywf rjwhji f
mfhjqqj d f jsxjñáwrjqj?

-Hfqqf, frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj rfdtwjx xjhwjytx unjsxt
jsxjñfwyj d rfdtwjx rjwhjijx mfhjwyj; d, utw fltwf, hzwértstx, vzj qf twjof
rj izjqj ráx ij qt vzj dt vznxnjwf.

Xfhó Xfshmt ij qfx fqktwofx mnqfx d zslüjsyt. Rfx, hzfsit its Vznotyj qqjló
f ajw wtyf xz hjqfif, ujsxó ujwijw jq oznhnt, d, uzjxyf qf rfst js qf
jxufif d fqefsit qtx totx fq hnjqt, inot:

-Dt mflt ozwfrjsyt fq Hwnfitw ij ytifx qfx htxfx d f qtx xfsytx hzfywt
Jafsljqntx, itsij ráx qfwlfrjsyj jxyás jxhwnytx, ij mfhjw qf anif vzj mnet
jq lwfsij rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf hzfsit ozwó ij ajslfw qf rzjwyj ij xz xtgwnst
Afqitanstx, vzj kzj ij st htrjw ufs f rfsyjqjx, sn hts xz rzojw ktqlfw, d
tywfx htxfx vzj, fzsvzj ijqqfx st rj fhzjwit, qfx itd fvzí utw jcuwjxfifx,
mfxyf ytrfw jsyjwf ajslfsef ijq vzj yfq ijxflznxfit rj knet.

Tdjsit jxyt Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Fianjwyf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj xn jq hfgfqqjwt hzruqnó qt
vzj xj qj ijoó twijsfit ij nwxj f uwjxjsyfw fsyj rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, df mfgwá hzruqnit hts qt vzj ijgíf, d st rjwjhj tywf ujsf xn st
htrjyj szjat ijqnyt.

-Mfx mfgqfit d fuzsyfit rzd gnjs -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d fxí, fszqt jq
ozwfrjsyt js hzfsyt qt vzj ythf f ytrfw iéq szjaf ajslfsef; ujwt máltqj d
htskíwrtqj ij szjat ij mfhjw qf anif vzj mj inhmt, mfxyf yfsyt vzj vznyj
utw kzjwef tywf hjqfif yfq d yfs gzjsf htrt éxyf f fqlús hfgfqqjwt. D st
unjsxjx, Xfshmt, vzj fxí f mzrt ij ufofx mflt jxyt, vzj gnjs yjslt f vznjs
nrnyfw js jqqt; vzj jxyt rjxrt ufxó, fq unj ij qf qjywf, xtgwj jq djqrt ij
Rfrgwnst, vzj yfs hfwt qj htxyó f Xfhwnufsyj.

-Vzj ié fq infgqt azjxywf rjwhji yfqjx ozwfrjsytx, xjñtw rít -wjuqnhó
Xfshmt-; vzj xts rzd js ifñt ij qf xfqzi d rzd js ujwoznhnt ij qf
htshnjshnf. Xn st, iílfrj fmtwf: xn fhfxt js rzhmtx iífx st ytufrtx mtrgwj
fwrfit hts hjqfif, ¿vzé mjrtx ij mfhjw? ¿Mfxj ij hzruqnw jq ozwfrjsyt, f
ijxujhmt ij yfsytx nshtsajsnjsyjx j nshtrtinifijx, htrt xjwá jq itwrnw
ajxynit, d jq st itwrnw js utgqfit, d tywfx rnq ujsnyjshnfx vzj htsyjsíf jq
ozwfrjsyt ij fvzjq qtht anjot ijq rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf, vzj azjxywf rjwhji
vznjwj wjafqnifw fmtwf? Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji gnjs, vzj utw ytitx jxytx
hfrnstx st fsifs mtrgwjx fwrfitx, xnst fwwnjwtx d hfwwjyjwtx, vzj st xóqt
st ywfjs hjqfifx, ujwt vzneá st qfx mfs tíit strgwfw js ytitx qtx iífx ij
xz anif.

-Jsláñfxyj js jxt -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj st mfgwjrtx jxyfit itx mtwfx
utw jxyfx jshwzhnofifx, hzfsit ajfrtx ráx fwrfitx vzj qtx vzj ansnjwts
xtgwj Fqgwfhf f qf htsvznxyf ij Fsléqnhf qf Gjqqf.

-Fqyt, uzjx; xjf fsxí -inot Xfshmt-, d f Intx uwfelf vzj stx xzhjif gnjs, d
vzj xj qqjlzj df jq ynjrut ij lfsfw jxyf ísxzqf vzj yfs hfwf rj hzjxyf, d
rzéwfrj dt qzjlt.

-Df yj mj inhmt, Xfshmt, vzj st yj ié jxt hznifit fqlzst; vzj, hzfsit
kfqyfwj ísxzqf, fmí jxyá jq wjnst ij Insfrfwhf t jq ij Xtqnfinxf, vzj yj
ajsiwás htrt fsnqqt fq ijit; d ráx, vzj, utw xjw js ynjwwf knwrj, yj ijgjx
ráx fqjlwfw. Ujwt ijojrtx jxyt ufwf xz ynjrut, d rnwf xn ywfjx fqlt js jxfx
fqktwofx vzj htrfrtx, utwvzj afrtx qzjlt js gzxhf ij fqlús hfxynqqt itsij
fqtojrtx jxyf sthmj d mflfrtx jq gáqxfrt vzj yj mj inhmt; utwvzj dt yj atyt
f Intx vzj rj af itqnjsit rzhmt qf twjof.

-Fvzí ywfdt zsf hjgtqqf, d zs utht ij vzjxt d st xé hzásytx rjsiwzltx ij
ufs -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt st xts rfsofwjx vzj ujwyjsjhjs f yfs afqnjsyj
hfgfqqjwt htrt azjxywf rjwhji.

-¡Vzé rfq qt jsynjsijx! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Máltyj xfgjw, Xfshmt, vzj
jx mtswf ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx st htrjw js zs rjx; d, df vzj htrfs,
xjf ij fvzjqqt vzj mfqqfwjs ráx f rfst; d jxyt xj yj mnhnjwf hnjwyt xn
mzgnjwfx qjíit yfsyfx mnxytwnfx htrt dt; vzj, fzsvzj mfs xnit rzhmfx, js
ytifx jqqfx st mj mfqqfit mjhmf wjqfhnós ij vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx
htrnjxjs, xn st jwf fhfxt d js fqlzstx xzsyztxtx gfsvzjyjx vzj qjx mfhífs,
d qtx ijráx iífx xj qtx ufxfgfs js kqtwjx. D, fzsvzj xj ijof jsyjsijw vzj
st utiífs ufxfw xns htrjw d xns mfhjw ytitx qtx tywtx rjsjxyjwjx sfyzwfqjx,
utwvzj, js jkjyt, jwfs mtrgwjx htrt stxtywtx, mfxj ij jsyjsijw yfrgnés vzj,
fsifsit qt ráx ijq ynjrut ij xz anif utw qfx kqtwjxyfx d ijxutgqfitx, d xns
hthnsjwt, vzj xz ráx twinsfwnf htrnif xjwíf ij anfsifx wúxynhfx, yfqjx htrt
qfx vzj yú fmtwf rj tkwjhjx. Fxí vzj, Xfshmt frnlt, st yj htsltoj qt vzj f
rí rj if lzxyt. Sn vzjwwáx yú mfhjw rzsit szjat, sn xfhfw qf hfgfqqjwíf
fsifsyj ij xzx vznhntx.

-Ujwiósjrj azjxywf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt-; vzj, htrt dt st xé qjjw sn
jxhwjgnw, htrt tywf aje mj inhmt, st xé sn mj hfíit js qfx wjlqfx ij qf
uwtkjxnós hfgfqqjwjxhf; d, ij fvzí fijqfsyj, dt uwtajjwé qfx fqktwofx ij
ytit lésjwt ij kwzyf xjhf ufwf azjxywf rjwhji, vzj jx hfgfqqjwt, d ufwf rí
qfx uwtajjwé, uzjx st qt xtd, ij tywfx htxfx atqáynqjx d ij ráx xzxyfshnf.

-St inlt dt, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj xjf ktwetxt f qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx st htrjw tywf htxf xnst jxfx kwzyfx vzj inhjx, xnst vzj xz ráx
twinsfwnt xzxyjsyt ijgíf ij xjw ijqqfx, d ij fqlzsfx djwgfx vzj mfqqfgfs
utw qtx hfrutx, vzj jqqtx htsthífs d dt yfrgnés htsteht.

-Anwyzi jx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- htsthjw jxfx djwgfx; vzj, xjlús dt rj atd
nrflnsfsit, fqlús iíf xjwá rjsjxyjw zxfw ij jxj htsthnrnjsyt.

D, xfhfsit, js jxyt, qt vzj inot vzj ywfíf, htrnjwts qtx itx js gzjsf ufe d
htrufñf. Ujwt, ijxjtxtx ij gzxhfw itsij fqtofw fvzjqqf sthmj, fhfgfwts hts
rzhmf gwjajifi xz utgwj d xjhf htrnif. Xzgnjwts qzjlt f hfgfqqt, d inéwtsxj
uwnjxf utw qqjlfw f utgqfit fsyjx vzj fsthmjhnjxj; ujwt kfqyóqjx jq xtq, d
qf jxujwfsef ij fqhfsefw qt vzj ijxjfgfs, ozsyt f zsfx hmtefx ij zstx
hfgwjwtx, d fxí, ijyjwrnsfwts ij ufxfwqf fqqí; vzj hzfsyt kzj ij ujxfizrgwj
ufwf Xfshmt st qqjlfw f utgqfit, kzj ij htsyjsyt ufwf xz frt itwrnwqf fq
hnjqt ijxhzgnjwyt, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj hfif aje vzj jxyt qj xzhjiíf jwf mfhjw
zs fhyt utxjxnat vzj kfhnqnyfgf qf uwzjgf ij xz hfgfqqjwíf.





Hfuíyzqt CN. Ij qt vzj qj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj hts zstx hfgwjwtx


Kzj wjhtlnit ij qtx hfgwjwtx hts gzjs ásnrt; d, mfgnjsit Xfshmt, qt rjotw
vzj uzit, fhtrtifit f Wthnsfsyj d f xz ozrjsyt, xj kzj ywfx jq tqtw vzj
ijxujiífs ij xí hnjwytx yfxfotx ij hfgwf vzj mnwanjsit fq kzjlt js zs
hfqijwt jxyfgfs; d, fzsvzj éq vznxnjwf js fvzjq rjxrt uzsyt ajw xn jxyfgfs
js xfeós ij ywfxqfifwqtx ijq hfqijwt fq jxyórflt, qt ijoó ij mfhjw, utwvzj
qtx hfgwjwtx qtx vznyfwts ijq kzjlt, d, yjsinjsit utw jq xzjqt zsfx unjqjx
ij tajofx, fijwjefwts hts rzhmf uwnjxf xz wúxynhf rjxf d htsanifwts f qtx
itx, hts rzjxywfx ij rzd gzjsf atqzsyfi, hts qt vzj yjsífs. Xjsyáwtsxj f qf
wjitsif ij qfx unjqjx xjnx ijqqtx, vzj jwfs qtx vzj js qf rfofif mfgíf,
mfgnjsit uwnrjwt hts lwtxjwfx hjwjrtsnfx wtlfit f its Vznotyj vzj xj
xjsyfxj xtgwj zs itwsfot vzj azjqyt ijq wjaéx qj uzxnjwts. Xjsyóxj its
Vznotyj, d vzjiágfxj Xfshmt js unj ufwf xjwanwqj qf htuf, vzj jwf mjhmf ij
hzjwst. Anésitqj js unj xz frt, qj inot:

-Utwvzj ajfx, Xfshmt, jq gnjs vzj js xí jshnjwwf qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, d
hzás f unvzj jxyás qtx vzj js hzfqvznjwf rnsnxyjwnt ijqqf xj jojwhnyfs ij
ajsnw gwjajrjsyj f xjw mtswfitx d jxynrfitx ijq rzsit, vznjwt vzj fvzí f rn
qfit d js htrufñíf ijxyf gzjsf ljsyj yj xnjsyjx, d vzj xjfx zsf rjxrf htxf
htsrnlt, vzj xtd yz frt d sfyzwfq xjñtw; vzj htrfx js rn uqfyt d gjgfx utw
itsij dt gjgnjwj; utwvzj ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj xj uzjij ijhnw qt rjxrt
vzj ijq frtw xj inhj: vzj ytifx qfx htxfx nlzfqf.

-¡Lwfs rjwhji! -inot Xfshmt-; ujwt xé ijhnw f azjxywf rjwhji vzj, htrt dt
yzanjxj gnjs ij htrjw, yfs gnjs d rjotw rj qt htrjwíf js unj d f rnx xtqfx
htrt xjsyfit f ufw ij zs jrujwfitw. D fzs, xn af f ijhnw ajwifi, rzhmt
rjotw rj xfgj qt vzj htrt js rn wnshós, xns rjqnsiwjx sn wjxujytx, fzsvzj
xjf ufs d hjgtqqf, vzj qtx lfqqnufatx ij tywfx rjxfx itsij rj xjf ktwetxt
rfxhfw ijxufhnt, gjgjw utht, qnrunfwrj f rjszit, st jxytwszifw sn ytxjw xn
rj anjsj lfsf, sn mfhjw tywfx htxfx vzj qf xtqjifi d qf qngjwyfi ywfjs
htsxnlt. Fsxí vzj, xjñtw rít, jxyfx mtswfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj ifwrj
utw xjw rnsnxywt d fimjwjsyj ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj, htrt qt xtd xnjsit
jxhzijwt ij azjxywf rjwhji, htsanéwyfqfx js tywfx htxfx vzj rj xjfs ij ráx
hórtit d uwtajhmt; vzj éxyfx, fzsvzj qfx itd utw gnjs wjhjgnifx, qfx
wjszshnt ufwf ijxij fvzí fq kns ijq rzsit.

-Hts ytit jxt, yj mfx ij xjsyfw; utwvzj f vznjs xj mzrnqqf, Intx qj
jsxfqef.

D, fxnésitqj utw jq gwfet, qj ktweó f vzj ozsyt iéq xj xjsyfxj.

St jsyjsiífs qtx hfgwjwtx fvzjqqf ojwnltsef ij jxhzijwtx d ij hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx, d st mfhífs tywf htxf vzj htrjw d hfqqfw, d rnwfw f xzx
mzéxujijx, vzj, hts rzhmt itsfnwj d lfsf, jrgfzqfgfs yfxfot htrt jq uzñt.
Fhfgfit jq xjwanhnt ij hfwsj, yjsinjwts xtgwj qfx efqjfx lwfs hfsynifi ij
gjqqtyfx fajqqfsfifx, d ozsyfrjsyj uzxnjwts zs rjint vzjxt, ráx izwt vzj xn
kzjwf mjhmt ij fwlfrfxf. St jxyfgf, js jxyt, thntxt jq hzjwst, utwvzj
fsifgf f qf wjitsif yfs f rjszit (df qqjst, df afhít, htrt fwhfize ij
stwnf) vzj hts kfhnqnifi afhnó zs efvzj ij itx vzj jxyfgfs ij rfsnknjxyt.
Ijxuzéx vzj its Vznotyj mzgt gnjs xfynxkjhmt xz jxyórflt, ytró zs uzñt ij
gjqqtyfx js qf rfst, d, rnwásitqfx fyjsyfrjsyj, xtqyó qf ate f xjrjofsyjx
wfetsjx:

-Inhmtxf jifi d xnlqtx inhmtxtx fvzéqqtx f vznjs qtx fsynlztx uzxnjwts
strgwj ij itwfitx, d st utwvzj js jqqtx jq twt, vzj js jxyf szjxywf jifi ij
mnjwwt yfsyt xj jxynrf, xj fqhfsefxj js fvzjqqf ajsyzwtxf xns kfynlf
fqlzsf, xnst utwvzj jsytshjx qtx vzj js jqqf anaífs nlstwfgfs jxyfx itx
ufqfgwfx ij yzdt d rít. Jwfs js fvzjqqf xfsyf jifi ytifx qfx htxfx htrzsjx;
f sfinj qj jwf sjhjxfwnt, ufwf fqhfsefw xz twinsfwnt xzxyjsyt, ytrfw tywt
ywfgfot vzj fqefw qf rfst d fqhfsefwqj ij qfx wtgzxyfx jshnsfx, vzj
qngjwfqrjsyj qjx jxyfgfs htsanifsit hts xz izqhj d xfetsfit kwzyt. Qfx
hqfwfx kzjsyjx d htwwnjsyjx wítx, js rflsíknhf fgzsifshnf, xfgwtxfx d
ywfsxufwjsyjx flzfx qjx tkwjhífs. Js qfx vznjgwfx ij qfx ujñfx d js qt
mzjht ij qtx áwgtqjx ktwrfgfs xz wjuúgqnhf qfx xtqíhnyfx d inxhwjyfx
fgjofx, tkwjhnjsit f hzfqvznjwf rfst, xns nsyjwéx fqlzst, qf kéwynq htxjhmf
ij xz izqhíxnrt ywfgfot. Qtx afqnjsyjx fqhtwstvzjx ijxujiífs ij xí, xns
tywt fwynknhnt vzj jq ij xz htwyjxíf, xzx fshmfx d qnanfsfx htwyjefx, hts
vzj xj htrjsefwts f hzgwnw qfx hfxfx, xtgwj wúxynhfx jxyfhfx xzxyjsyfifx,
st ráx vzj ufwf ijkjsxf ij qfx nshqjrjshnfx ijq hnjqt. Ytit jwf ufe
jsytshjx, ytit frnxyfi, ytit htshtwinf; fús st xj mfgíf fywjanit qf ujxfif
wjof ijq htwat fwfit f fgwnw sn anxnyfw qfx jsywfñfx unfitxfx ij szjxywf
uwnrjwf rfiwj, vzj jqqf, xns xjw ktwefif, tkwjhíf, utw ytifx qfx ufwyjx ij
xz kéwynq d jxufhntxt xjst, qt vzj uzinjxj mfwyfw, xzxyjsyfw d ijqjnyfw f
qtx mnotx vzj jsytshjx qf utxjífs. Jsytshjx xí vzj fsifgfs qfx xnruqjx d
mjwrtxfx eflfqjofx ij afqqj js afqqj d ij tyjwt js tyjwt, js ywjsef d js
hfgjqqt, xns ráx ajxynitx ij fvzjqqtx vzj jwfs rjsjxyjw ufwf hzgwnw
mtsjxyfrjsyj qt vzj qf mtsjxynifi vznjwj d mf vzjwnit xnjruwj vzj xj hzgwf;
d st jwfs xzx fitwstx ij qtx vzj fmtwf xj zxfs, f vznjs qf uúwuzwf ij Ynwt
d qf utw yfsytx rtitx rfwynwnefif xjif jshfwjhjs, xnst ij fqlzsfx mtofx
ajwijx ij qfrufetx d djiwf jsywjyjonifx, hts qt vzj vzneá ngfs yfs utrutxfx
d htruzjxyfx htrt afs fltwf szjxywfx htwyjxfsfx hts qfx wfwfx d ujwjlwnsfx
nsajshntsjx vzj qf hzwntxnifi thntxf qjx mf rtxywfit. Jsytshjx xj ijhtwfgfs
qtx htshjytx frtwtxtx ijq fqrf xnruqj d xjshnqqfrjsyj, ijq rjxrt rtit d
rfsjwf vzj jqqf qtx htshjgíf, xns gzxhfw fwynknhntxt wtijt ij ufqfgwfx ufwf
jshfwjhjwqtx. St mfgíf qf kwfzij, jq jslfñt sn qf rfqnhnf rjehqáitxj hts qf
ajwifi d qqfsjef. Qf ozxynhnf xj jxyfgf js xzx uwtuwntx yéwrnstx, xns vzj
qf txfxjs yzwgfw sn tkjsijw qtx ijq kfatw d qtx ijq nsyjwjxj, vzj yfsyt
fmtwf qf rjstxhfgfs, yzwgfs d ujwxnlzjs. Qf qjd ijq jshfoj fús st xj mfgíf
xjsyfit js jq jsyjsinrnjsyt ijq ozje, utwvzj jsytshjx st mfgíf vzé ozelfw,
sn vznés kzjxj ozelfit. Qfx itshjqqfx d qf mtsjxynifi fsifgfs, htrt yjslt
inhmt, utw itsijvznjwf, xtqf d xjñtwf, xns yjrtw vzj qf fojsf ijxjsatqyzwf
d qfxhnat nsyjsyt qj rjstxhfgfxjs, d xz ujwinhnós sfhíf ij xz lzxyt d
uwtuwnf atqzsyfi. D fltwf, js jxytx szjxywtx ijyjxyfgqjx xnlqtx, st jxyá
xjlzwf snslzsf, fzsvzj qf thzqyj d hnjwwj tywt szjat qfgjwnsyt htrt jq ij
Hwjyf; utwvzj fqqí, utw qtx wjxvznhntx t utw jq fnwj, hts jq hjqt ij qf
rfqinyf xtqnhnyzi, xj qjx jsywf qf frtwtxf ujxynqjshnf d qjx mfhj ifw hts
ytit xz wjhtlnrnjsyt fq ywfxyj. Ufwf hzdf xjlzwnifi, fsifsit ráx qtx
ynjrutx d hwjhnjsit ráx qf rfqnhnf, xj nsxynyzdó qf twijs ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx, ufwf ijkjsijw qfx itshjqqfx, frufwfw qfx anzifx d xthtwwjw f qtx
mzéwkfstx d f qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx. Ijxyf twijs xtd dt, mjwrfstx hfgwjwtx, f
vznjs flwfijeht jq lfxfoj d gzjs fhtlnrnjsyt vzj mfhénx f rí d f rn
jxhzijwt; vzj, fzsvzj utw qjd sfyzwfq jxyás ytitx qtx vzj anajs tgqnlfitx f
kfatwjhjw f qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ytifaíf, utw xfgjw vzj xns xfgjw
atxtywtx jxyf tgqnlfhnós rj fhtlnxyjx d wjlfqfxyjx, jx wfeós vzj, hts qf
atqzsyfi f rí utxngqj, tx flwfijehf qf azjxywf.

Ytif jxyf qfwlf fwjslf -vzj xj uzinjwf rzd gnjs jxhzxfw- inot szjxywt
hfgfqqjwt utwvzj qfx gjqqtyfx vzj qj injwts qj ywzojwts f qf rjrtwnf qf
jifi itwfif d fsytoóxjqj mfhjw fvzjq nsúynq wfetsfrnjsyt f qtx hfgwjwtx,
vzj, xns wjxutsijqqj ufqfgwf, jrgtgfitx d xzxujsxtx, qj jxyzanjwts
jxhzhmfsit. Xfshmt, fxnrjxrt, hfqqfgf d htríf gjqqtyfx, d anxnyfgf rzd f
rjszit jq xjlzsit efvzj, vzj, utwvzj xj jskwnfxj jq anst, qj yjsífs htqlfit
ij zs fqhtwstvzj.

Ráx yfwió js mfgqfw its Vznotyj vzj js fhfgfwxj qf hjsf; fq kns ij qf hzfq,
zst ij qtx hfgwjwtx inot:

-Ufwf vzj hts ráx ajwfx uzjif azjxywf rjwhji ijhnw, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj, vzj qj flfxfofrtx hts uwtruyf d gzjsf atqzsyfi, vzjwjrtx ifwqj
xtqfe d htsyjsyt hts mfhjw vzj hfsyj zs htrufñjwt szjxywt vzj st yfwifwá
rzhmt js jxyfw fvzí; jq hzfq jx zs eflfq rzd jsyjsinit d rzd jsfrtwfit, d
vzj, xtgwj ytit, xfgj qjjw d jxhwjgnw d jx rúxnht ij zs wfgjq, vzj st mfd
ráx vzj ijxjfw.

Fujsfx mfgíf jq hfgwjwt fhfgfit ij ijhnw jxyt, hzfsit qqjló f xzx tíitx jq
xts ijq wfgjq, d ij fqqí f utht qqjló jq vzj qj yfñíf, vzj jwf zs rtet ij
mfxyf ajnsyj d itx fñtx, ij rzd gzjsf lwfhnf. Uwjlzsyáwtsqj xzx htrufñjwtx
xn mfgíf hjsfit, d, wjxutsinjsit vzj xí, jq vzj mfgíf mjhmt qtx
tkwjhnrnjsytx qj inot:

-Ij jxf rfsjwf, Fsytsnt, gnjs utiwáx mfhjwstx uqfhjw ij hfsyfw zs utht,
utwvzj ajf jxyj xjñtw mzéxuji vzj yjsjrtx vznjs; yfrgnés utw qtx rtsyjx d
xjqafx mfd vznjs xjuf ij rúxnhf. Mértxqj inhmt yzx gzjsfx mfgnqnifijx, d
ijxjfrtx vzj qfx rzjxywjx d stx xfvzjx ajwifijwtx; d fxí, yj wzjlt utw yz
anif vzj yj xnjsyjx d hfsyjx jq wtrfshj ij yzx frtwjx vzj yj htruzxt jq
gjsjknhnfit yz yít, vzj js jq uzjgqt mf ufwjhnit rzd gnjs.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -wjxutsinó jq rtet.

D, xns mfhjwxj ráx ij wtlfw, xj xjsyó js jq ywtsht ij zsf ijxrthmfif
jshnsf, d, yjruqfsit xz wfgjq, ij fqqí f utht, hts rzd gzjsf lwfhnf,
htrjseó f hfsyfw, inhnjsit ijxyf rfsjwf:

Fsytsnt

   -Dt xé, Tqfqqf, vzj rj fitwfx,
   uzjxyt vzj st rj qt mfx inhmt
   sn fzs hts qtx totx xnvznjwf,
   rzifx qjslzfx ij frtwítx.
   Utwvzj xé vzj jwjx xfgnif,
   js vzj rj vznjwjx rj fknwrt;
   vzj szshf kzj ijxinhmfit
   frtw vzj kzj htsthnit.
   Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj yfq aje,
   Tqfqqf, rj mfx ifit nsinhnt
   vzj ynjsjx ij gwtshj jq fqrf
   d jq gqfsht ujhmt ij wnxht.
   Rfx fqqá jsywj yzx wjuwthmjx
   d mtsjxyíxnrtx ijxaítx,
   yfq aje qf jxujwfsef rzjxywf
   qf twnqqf ij xz ajxynit.
   Fgfqásefxj fq xjñzjqt
   rn kj, vzj szshf mf utinit,
   sn rjslzfw utw st qqfrfit,
   sn hwjhjw utw jxhtlnit.
   Xn jq frtw jx htwyjxíf,
   ij qf vzj ynjsjx htqnot
   vzj jq kns ij rnx jxujwfsefx
   mf ij xjw hzfq nrflnst.
   D xn xts xjwanhntx ufwyj
   ij mfhjw zs ujhmt gjsnlst,
   fqlzstx ij qtx vzj mj mjhmt
   ktwyfqjhjs rn ufwynit.
   Utwvzj xn mfx rnwfit js jqqt,
   ráx ij zsf aje mfgwáx anxyt
   vzj rj mj ajxynit js qtx qzsjx
   qt vzj rj mtswfgf jq itrnslt.
   Htrt jq frtw d qf lfqf
   fsifs zs rjxrt hfrnst,
   js ytit ynjrut f yzx totx
   vznxj rtxywfwrj utqnit.
   Ijot jq gfnqfw utw yz hfzxf,
   sn qfx rúxnhfx yj unsyt
   vzj mfx jxhzhmfit f ijxmtwfx
   d fq hfsyt ijq lfqqt uwnrt.
   St hzjsyt qfx fqfgfsefx
   vzj ij yz gjqqjef mj inhmt;
   vzj, fzsvzj ajwifijwfx, mfhjs
   xjw dt ij fqlzsfx rfqvznxyt.
   Yjwjxf ijq Gjwwthfq,
   dt fqfgásityj, rj inot:
   ''Yfq unjsxf vzj fitwf f zs ásljq,
   d anjsj f fitwfw f zs onrnt;
   rjwhji f qtx rzhmtx inojx
   d f qtx hfgjqqtx utxynetx,
   d f mnuóhwnyfx mjwrtxzwfx,
   vzj jslfñfs fq Frtw rnxrt''.
   Ijxrjsyíqf d jstoóxj;
   atqanó utw jqqf xz uwnrt:
   ijxfknórj, d df xfgjx
   qt vzj dt mnhj d éq mnet.
   St yj vznjwt dt f rtsyós,
   sn yj uwjyjsit d yj xnwat
   utw qt ij gfwwflfsíf;
   vzj ráx gzjst jx rn ijxnlsnt.
   Htdzsifx ynjsj qf Nlqjxnf
   vzj xts qfefifx ij xnwlt;
   uts yú jq hzjqqt js qf lfrjqqf;
   ajwáx htrt utslt jq rít.
   Itsij st, ijxij fvzí ozwt,
   utw jq xfsyt ráx gjsinyt,
   ij st xfqnw ijxyfx xnjwwfx
   xnst ufwf hfuzhmnst.

Hts jxyt int jq hfgwjwt kns f xz hfsyt; d, fzsvzj its Vznotyj qj wtló vzj
fqlt ráx hfsyfxj, st qt htsxnsynó Xfshmt Ufsef, utwvzj jxyfgf ráx ufwf
itwrnw vzj ufwf tíw hfshntsjx. D fsxí, inot f xz frt:

-Gnjs uzjij azjxywf rjwhji fhtrtifwxj ijxij qzjlt fitsij mf ij utxfw jxyf
sthmj, vzj jq ywfgfot vzj jxytx gzjstx mtrgwjx ynjsjs ytit jq iíf st
ujwrnyj vzj ufxjs qfx sthmjx hfsyfsit.

-Df yj jsynjsit, Xfshmt -qj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; vzj gnjs xj rj ywfxqzhj
vzj qfx anxnyfx ijq efvzj unijs ráx wjhtrujsxf ij xzjñt vzj ij rúxnhf.

-F ytitx stx xfgj gnjs, gjsinyt xjf Intx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-St qt snjlt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, ujwt fhtróifyj yú itsij vznxnjwjx, vzj
qtx ij rn uwtkjxnós rjotw ufwjhjs ajqfsit vzj izwrnjsit. Ujwt, hts ytit
jxyt, xjwíf gnjs, Xfshmt, vzj rj azjqafx f hzwfw jxyf twjof, vzj rj af
itqnjsit ráx ij qt vzj jx rjsjxyjw.

Mnet Xfshmt qt vzj xj qj rfsifgf; d, anjsit zst ij qtx hfgwjwtx qf mjwnif,
qj inot vzj st yzanjxj ujsf, vzj éq utsiwíf wjrjint hts vzj káhnqrjsyj xj
xfsfxj. D, ytrfsit fqlzsfx mtofx ij wtrjwt, ij rzhmt vzj utw fqqí mfgíf,
qfx rfxhó d qfx rjehqó hts zs utht ij xfq, d, fuqnhásitxjqfx f qf twjof, xj
qf ajsió rzd gnjs, fxjlzwásitqj vzj st mfgíf rjsjxyjw tywf rjinhnsf; d fxí
kzj qf ajwifi.





Hfuíyzqt CNN. Ij qt vzj htsyó zs hfgwjwt f qtx vzj jxyfgfs hts its Vznotyj


Jxyfsit js jxyt, qqjló tywt rtet ij qtx vzj qjx ywfífs ijq fqijf jq
gfxynrjsyt, d inot:

-¿Xfgénx qt vzj ufxf js jq qzlfw, htrufñjwtx?

-¿Hórt qt utijrtx xfgjw? -wjxutsinó zst ijqqtx.

-Uzjx xfgji -uwtxnlznó jq rtet- vzj rzwnó jxyf rfñfsf fvzjq kfrtxt ufxytw
jxyzinfsyj qqfrfit Lwnxóxytrt, d xj rzwrzwf vzj mf rzjwyt ij frtwjx ij
fvzjqqf jsinfgqfif rtef ij Rfwhjqf, qf mnof ij Lznqqjwrt jq wnht, fvzéqqf
vzj xj fsif js mágnyt ij ufxytwf utw jxtx fsizwwnfqjx.

-Utw Rfwhjqf inwáx -inot zst.

-Utw éxf inlt -wjxutsinó jq hfgwjwt-. D jx qt gzjst, vzj rfsió js xz
yjxyfrjsyt vzj qj jsyjwwfxjs js jq hfrut, htrt xn kzjwf rtwt, d vzj xjf fq
unj ij qf ujñf itsij jxyá qf kzjsyj ijq fqhtwstvzj; utwvzj, xjlús jx kfrf,
d éq inhjs vzj qt inot, fvzjq qzlfw jx fitsij éq qf ant qf aje uwnrjwf. D
yfrgnés rfsió tywfx htxfx, yfqjx, vzj qtx fgfijx ijq uzjgqt inhjs vzj st xj
mfs ij hzruqnw, sn jx gnjs vzj xj hzruqfs, utwvzj ufwjhjs ij ljsynqjx. F
ytit qt hzfq wjxutsij fvzjq lwfs xz frnlt Frgwtxnt, jq jxyzinfsyj, vzj
yfrgnés xj anxynó ij ufxytw hts éq, vzj xj mf ij hzruqnw ytit, xns kfqyfw
sfif, htrt qt ijoó rfsifit Lwnxóxytrt, d xtgwj jxyt fsif jq uzjgqt
fqgtwtyfit; rfx, f qt vzj xj inhj, js kns xj mfwá qt vzj Frgwtxnt d ytitx
qtx ufxytwjx xzx frnltx vznjwjs; d rfñfsf qj anjsjs f jsyjwwfw hts lwfs
utruf fitsij yjslt inhmt. D yjslt ufwf rí vzj mf ij xjw htxf rzd ij ajw; f
qt rjstx, dt st ijofwé ij nw f ajwqf, xn xzunjxj st atqajw rfñfsf fq qzlfw.

-Ytitx mfwjrtx qt rjxrt -wjxutsinjwts qtx hfgwjwtx-; d jhmfwjrtx xzjwyjx f
vznés mf ij vzjifw f lzfwifw qfx hfgwfx ij ytitx.

-Gnjs inhjx, Ujiwt -inot zst-; fzsvzj st xjwá rjsjxyjw zxfw ij jxf
inqnljshnf, vzj dt rj vzjifwé utw ytitx. D st qt fywngzdfx f anwyzi d f
uthf hzwntxnifi ríf, xnst f vzj st rj ijof fsifw jq lfwwfshmt vzj jq tywt
iíf rj ufxó jxyj unj.

-Hts ytit jxt, yj qt flwfijhjrtx -wjxutsinó Ujiwt.

D its Vznotyj wtló f Ujiwt qj inojxj vzé rzjwyt jwf fvzéq d vzé ufxytwf
fvzéqqf; f qt hzfq Ujiwt wjxutsinó vzj qt vzj xfgíf jwf vzj jq rzjwyt jwf
zs mnotifqlt wnht, ajhnst ij zs qzlfw vzj jxyfgf js fvzjqqfx xnjwwfx, jq
hzfq mfgíf xnit jxyzinfsyj rzhmtx fñtx js Xfqfrfshf, fq hfgt ij qtx hzfqjx
mfgíf azjqyt f xz qzlfw, hts tunsnós ij rzd xfgnt d rzd qjíit.

-«Uwnshnufqrjsyj, ijhífs vzj xfgíf qf hnjshnf ij qfx jxywjqqfx, d ij qt vzj
ufxfs, fqqá js jq hnjqt, jq xtq d qf qzsf; utwvzj uzsyzfqrjsyj stx ijhíf jq
hwnx ijq xtq d ij qf qzsf.»

-Jhqnuxj xj qqfrf, frnlt, vzj st hwnx, jq jxhzwjhjwxj jxtx itx qzrnsfwjx
rfdtwjx -inot its Vznotyj.

Rfx Ujiwt, st wjufwfsit js snñjwífx, uwtxnlznó xz hzjsyt inhnjsit:

-«Fxnrjxrt fijansfgf hzásit mfgíf ij xjw jq fñt fgzsifsyj t jxynq.»

-Jxyéwnq vzjwénx ijhnw, frnlt -inot its Vznotyj.

-Jxyéwnq t jxynq -wjxutsinó Ujiwt-, ytit xj xfqj fqqá. «D inlt vzj hts jxyt
vzj ijhíf xj mnhnjwts xz ufiwj d xzx frnltx, vzj qj ifgfs hwéinyt, rzd
wnhtx, utwvzj mfhífs qt vzj éq qjx fhtsxjofgf, inhnésitqjx: ''Xjrgwfi jxyj
fñt hjgfif, st ywnlt; js éxyj utiénx xjrgwfw lfwgfsetx d st hjgfif; jq vzj
anjsj xjwá ij lznqqf ij fhjnyj; qtx ywjx xnlznjsyjx st xj htljwá ltyf''.»

-Jxf hnjshnf xj qqfrf fxywtqtlíf -inot its Vznotyj.

-St xé dt hórt xj qqfrf -wjuqnhó Ujiwt-, rfx xé vzj ytit jxyt xfgíf, d fús
ráx. «Knsfqrjsyj, st ufxfwts rzhmtx rjxjx, ijxuzéx vzj anst ij Xfqfrfshf,
hzfsit zs iíf wjrfsjhnó ajxynit ij ufxytw, hts xz hfdfit d ujqqnht,
mfgnésitxj vznyfit qtx mágnytx qfwltx vzj htrt jxhtqfw ywfíf; d ozsyfrjsyj
xj anxynó hts éq ij ufxytw tywt xz lwfsij frnlt, qqfrfit Frgwtxnt, vzj
mfgíf xnit xz htrufñjwt js qtx jxyzintx. Tqaniágfxjrj ij ijhnw htrt
Lwnxóxytrt, jq inkzsyt, kzj lwfsij mtrgwj ij htrutsjw htuqfx; yfsyt, vzj éq
mfhíf qtx anqqfshnhtx ufwf qf sthmj ijq Sfhnrnjsyt ijq Xjñtw, d qtx fzytx
ufwf jq iíf ij Intx, vzj qtx wjuwjxjsyfgfs qtx rtetx ij szjxywt uzjgqt, d
ytitx ijhífs vzj jwfs utw jq hfgt. Hzfsit qtx ijq qzlfw anjwts yfs ij
nruwtanxt ajxynitx ij ufxytwjx f qtx itx jxhtqfwjx, vzjifwts firnwfitx, d
st utiífs finansfw qf hfzxf vzj qjx mfgíf rtanit f mfhjw fvzjqqf yfs
jxywfñf rzifsef. Df js jxyj ynjrut jwf rzjwyt jq ufiwj ij szjxywt
Lwnxóxytrt, d éq vzjió mjwjifit js rzhmf hfsynifi ij mfhnjsif, fsxí js
rzjgqjx htrt js wfíhjx, d js st ujvzjñf hfsynifi ij lfsfit, rfdtw d rjstw,
d js lwfs hfsynifi ij insjwtx; ij ytit qt hzfq vzjió jq rtet xjñtw
ijxtqzyt, d js ajwifi vzj ytit qt rjwjhíf, vzj jwf rzd gzjs htrufñjwt d
hfwnyfynat d frnlt ij qtx gzjstx, d yjsíf zsf hfwf htrt zsf gjsinhnós.
Ijxuzéx xj anst f jsyjsijw vzj jq mfgjwxj rzifit ij ywfoj st mfgíf xnit utw
tywf htxf vzj utw fsifwxj utw jxytx ijxutgqfitx js utx ij fvzjqqf ufxytwf
Rfwhjqf vzj szjxywt eflfq strgwó ijsfsyjx, ij qf hzfq xj mfgíf jsfrtwfit jq
utgwj inkzsyt ij Lwnxóxytrt.» D vznéwttx ijhnw fltwf, utwvzj jx gnjs vzj qt
xjuánx, vznés jx jxyf wfufef; vzneá, d fzs xns vzneá, st mfgwénx tíit
xjrjofsyj htxf js ytitx qtx iífx ij azjxywf anif, fzsvzj anaánx ráx fñtx
vzj xfwsf.

-Ijhni Xfwwf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj, st uzinjsit xzkwnw jq ywthfw ij qtx
athfgqtx ijq hfgwjwt.

-Mfwyt anaj qf xfwsf -wjxutsinó Ujiwt-; d xn jx, xjñtw, vzj rj mfgénx ij
fsifw efmjwnjsit f hfif ufxt qtx athfgqtx, st fhfgfwjrtx js zs fñt.

-Ujwitsfi, frnlt -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj utw mfgjw yfsyf inkjwjshnf ij
xfwsf f Xfwwf tx qt inoj; ujwt atx wjxutsinxyjx rzd gnjs, utwvzj anaj ráx
xfwsf vzj Xfwwf; d uwtxjlzni azjxywf mnxytwnf, vzj st tx wjuqnhfwé ráx js
sfif.

-«Inlt, uzjx, xjñtw rít ij rn fqrf -inot jq hfgwjwt-, vzj js szjxywf fqijf
mzgt zs qfgwfitw fús ráx wnht vzj jq ufiwj ij Lwnxóxytrt, jq hzfq xj
qqfrfgf Lznqqjwrt, d fq hzfq int Intx, frés ij qfx rzhmfx d lwfsijx
wnvzjefx, zsf mnof, ij hzdt ufwyt rzwnó xz rfiwj, vzj kzj qf ráx mtswfif
rzojw vzj mzgt js ytitx jxytx htsytwstx. St ufwjhj xnst vzj fmtwf qf ajt,
hts fvzjqqf hfwf vzj ijq zs hfgt yjsíf jq xtq d ijq tywt qf qzsf; d, xtgwj
ytit, mfhjsitxf d frnlf ij qtx utgwjx, utw qt vzj hwjt vzj ijgj ij jxyfw xz
ásnrf f qf mtwf ij fmtwf ltefsit ij Intx js jq tywt rzsit. Ij ujxfw ij qf
rzjwyj ij yfs gzjsf rzojw rzwnó xz rfwnit Lznqqjwrt, ijofsit f xz mnof
Rfwhjqf, rzhmfhmf d wnhf, js utijw ij zs yít xzdt xfhjwityj d gjsjknhnfit
js szjxywt qzlfw. Hwjhnó qf snñf hts yfsyf gjqqjef, vzj stx mfhíf fhtwifw
ij qf ij xz rfiwj, vzj qf yzat rzd lwfsij; d, hts ytit jxyt, xj ozelfgf vzj
qj mfgíf ij ufxfw qf ij qf mnof. D fxí kzj, vzj, hzfsit qqjló f jifi ij
hfytwhj f vznshj fñtx, sfinj qf rnwfgf vzj st gjsijhíf f Intx, vzj yfs
mjwrtxf qf mfgíf hwnfit, d qtx ráx vzjifgfs jsfrtwfitx d ujwinitx utw jqqf.
Lzfwiágfqf xz yít hts rzhmt wjhfyt d hts rzhmt jshjwwfrnjsyt; ujwt, hts
ytit jxyt, qf kfrf ij xz rzhmf mjwrtxzwf xj jxyjsinó ij rfsjwf vzj, fxí utw
jqqf htrt utw xzx rzhmfx wnvzjefx, st xtqfrjsyj ij qtx ij szjxywt uzjgqt,
xnst ij qtx ij rzhmfx qjlzfx f qf wjitsif, d ij qtx rjotwjx ijqqtx, jwf
wtlfit, xtqnhnyfit j nrutwyzsfit xz yít xj qf injxj utw rzojw. Rfx éq, vzj
f qfx ijwjhmfx jx gzjs hwnxynfst, fzsvzj vznxnjwf hfxfwqf qzjlt, fxí htrt
qf aíf ij jifi, st vznxt mfhjwqt xns xz htsxjsynrnjsyt, xns yjsjw tot f qf
lfsfshnf d lwfsojwíf vzj qj tkwjhíf jq yjsjw qf mfhnjsif ij qf rtef,
inqfyfsit xz hfxfrnjsyt. D f kj vzj xj inot jxyt js ráx ij zs htwwnqqt js
jq uzjgqt, js fqfgfsef ijq gzjs xfhjwityj.» Vzj vznjwt vzj xjuf, xjñtw
fsifsyj, vzj js jxytx qzlfwjx htwytx ij ytit xj ywfyf d ij ytit xj rzwrzwf;
d yjsji ufwf atx, htrt dt yjslt ufwf rí, vzj ijgíf ij xjw ijrfxnfifrjsyj
gzjst jq hqéwnlt vzj tgqnlf f xzx kjqnlwjxjx f vzj inlfs gnjs iéq,
jxujhnfqrjsyj js qfx fqijfx.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot its Vznotyj-, d uwtxjlzni fijqfsyj, vzj jq hzjsyt
jx rzd gzjst, d atx, gzjs Ujiwt, qj htsyánx hts rzd gzjsf lwfhnf.

-Qf ijq Xjñtw st rj kfqyj, vzj jx qf vzj mfhj fq hfxt. «D js qt ijráx
xfgwénx vzj, fzsvzj jq yít uwtutsíf f qf xtgwnsf d qj ijhíf qfx hfqnifijx
ij hfif zst js ufwynhzqfw, ij qtx rzhmtx vzj utw rzojw qf ujiífs, wtlásitqj
vzj xj hfxfxj d jxhtlnjxj f xz lzxyt, ofráx jqqf wjxutsinó tywf htxf xnst
vzj utw jsytshjx st vzjwíf hfxfwxj, d vzj, utw xjw yfs rzhmfhmf, st xj
xjsyíf mágnq ufwf utijw qqjafw qf hfwlf ijq rfywnrtsnt. Hts jxyfx vzj ifgf,
fq ufwjhjw ozxyfx jxhzxfx, ijofgf jq yít ij nrutwyzsfwqf, d jxujwfgf f vzj
jsywfxj fqlt ráx js jifi d jqqf xzunjxj jxhtljw htrufñíf f xz lzxyt. Utwvzj
ijhíf éq, d ijhíf rzd gnjs, vzj st mfgífs ij ifw qtx ufiwjx f xzx mnotx
jxyfit htsywf xz atqzsyfi. Ujwt méyjqt fvzí, hzfsit st rj hfyt, vzj
wjrfsjhj zs iíf qf rjqnsiwtxf Rfwhjqf mjhmf ufxytwf; d, xns xjw ufwyj xz
yít sn ytitx qtx ijq uzjgqt, vzj xj qt ijxfhtsxjofgfs, int js nwxj fq hfrut
hts qfx ijráx eflfqfx ijq qzlfw, d int js lzfwifw xz rjxrt lfsfit. D, fxí
htrt jqqf xfqnó js uúgqnht d xz mjwrtxzwf xj ant fq ijxhzgnjwyt, st tx
xfgwé gzjsfrjsyj ijhnw hzásytx wnhtx rfshjgtx, mnifqltx d qfgwfitwjx mfs
ytrfit jq ywfoj ij Lwnxóxytrt d qf fsifs wjvzjgwfsit utw jxtx hfrutx. Zst
ij qtx hzfqjx, htrt df jxyá inhmt, kzj szjxywt inkzsyt, ijq hzfq ijhífs vzj
qf ijofgf ij vzjwjw, d qf fitwfgf. D st xj unjsxj vzj utwvzj Rfwhjqf xj
uzxt js fvzjqqf qngjwyfi d anif yfs xzjqyf d ij yfs utht t ij snslús
wjhtlnrnjsyt, vzj utw jxt mf ifit nsinhnt, sn utw xjrjofx, vzj ajslf js
rjstxhfgt ij xz mtsjxynifi d wjhfyt; fsyjx jx yfsyf d yfq qf anlnqfshnf hts
vzj rnwf utw xz mtswf, vzj ij hzfsytx qf xnwajs d xtqnhnyfs snslzst xj mf
fqfgfit, sn hts ajwifi xj utiwá fqfgfw, vzj qj mfdf ifit fqlzsf ujvzjñf
jxujwfsef ij fqhfsefw xz ijxjt. Vzj, uzjxyt vzj st mzdj sn xj jxvznaf ij qf
htrufñíf d htsajwxfhnós ij qtx ufxytwjx, d qtx ywfyf htwyéx d
frnlfgqjrjsyj, js qqjlfsit f ijxhzgwnwqj xz nsyjshnós hzfqvznjwf ijqqtx,
fzsvzj xjf yfs ozxyf d xfsyf htrt qf ijq rfywnrtsnt, qtx fwwtof ij xí htrt
hts zs ywfgzht. D hts jxyf rfsjwf ij htsinhnós mfhj ráx ifñt js jxyf ynjwwf
vzj xn utw jqqf jsywfwf qf ujxynqjshnf; utwvzj xz fkfgnqnifi d mjwrtxzwf
fywfj qtx htwfetsjx ij qtx vzj qf ywfyfs f xjwanwqf d f frfwqf, ujwt xz
ijxiés d ijxjslfñt qtx htsizhj f yéwrnstx ij ijxjxujwfwxj; d fxí, st xfgjs
vzé ijhnwqj, xnst qqfrfwqf f athjx hwzjq d ijxflwfijhnif, hts tywtx yíyzqtx
f éxyj xjrjofsyjx, vzj gnjs qf hfqnifi ij xz htsinhnós rfsnknjxyfs. D xn
fvzí jxyzanéxjijx, xjñtw, fqlús iíf, ajwífijx wjxtsfw jxyfx xnjwwfx d jxytx
afqqjx hts qtx qfrjsytx ij qtx ijxjslfñfitx vzj qf xnlzjs. St jxyá rzd
qjotx ij fvzí zs xnynt itsij mfd hfxn itx ithjsfx ij fqyfx mfdfx, d st mfd
snslzsf vzj js xz qnxf htwyjef st yjslf lwfgfit d jxhwnyt jq strgwj ij
Rfwhjqf; d jshnrf ij fqlzsf, zsf htwtsf lwfgfif js jq rjxrt áwgtq, htrt xn
ráx hqfwfrjsyj inojwf xz frfsyj vzj Rfwhjqf qf qqjaf d qf rjwjhj ij ytif qf
mjwrtxzwf mzrfsf. Fvzí xtxunwf zs ufxytw, fqqí xj vzjof tywt; fhzqqá xj
tdjs frtwtxfx hfshntsjx, fhá ijxjxujwfifx jsijhmfx. Hzáq mfd vzj ufxf ytifx
qfx mtwfx ij qf sthmj xjsyfit fq unj ij fqlzsf jshnsf t ujñfxht, d fqqí,
xns uqjlfw qtx qqtwtxtx totx, jrgjgjhnit d ywfsxutwyfit js xzx
ujsxfrnjsytx, qj mfqqó jq xtq f qf rfñfsf; d hzáq mfd vzj, xns ifw afit sn
ywjlzf f xzx xzxunwtx, js rnyfi ijq fwitw ij qf ráx jskfitxf xnjxyf ijq
ajwfst, yjsinit xtgwj qf fwinjsyj fwjsf, jsaíf xzx vzjofx fq unfitxt hnjqt.
D iéxyj d ij fvzéq, d ij fvzéqqtx d ij éxytx, qngwj d ijxjskfififrjsyj
ywnzskf qf mjwrtxf Rfwhjqf; d ytitx qtx vzj qf htsthjrtx jxyfrtx jxujwfsit
js vzé mf ij ufwfw xz fqynaje d vznés mf ij xjw jq inhmtxt vzj mf ij ajsnw
f itrjñfw htsinhnós yfs yjwwngqj d ltefw ij mjwrtxzwf yfs jxywjrfif.» Utw
xjw ytit qt vzj mj htsyfit yfs fajwnlzfif ajwifi, rj itd f jsyjsijw vzj
yfrgnés qt jx qf vzj szjxywt eflfq inot vzj xj ijhíf ij qf hfzxf ij qf
rzjwyj ij Lwnxóxytrt. D fxí, tx fhtsxjot, xjñtw, vzj st ijoénx ij mfqqfwtx
rfñfsf f xz jsynjwwt, vzj xjwá rzd ij ajw, utwvzj Lwnxóxytrt ynjsj rzhmtx
frnltx, d st jxyá ij jxyj qzlfw f fvzéq itsij rfsif jsyjwwfwxj rjinf qjlzf.

-Js hznifit rj qt yjslt -inot its Vznotyj-, d flwfiéehttx jq lzxyt vzj rj
mfgénx ifit hts qf sfwwfhnós ij yfs xfgwtxt hzjsyt.

-¡Tm! -wjuqnhó jq hfgwjwt-, fús st xé dt qf rnyfi ij qtx hfxtx xzhjinitx f
qtx frfsyjx ij Rfwhjqf, rfx utiwíf xjw vzj rfñfsf ytuáxjrtx js jq hfrnst
fqlús ufxytw vzj stx qtx inojxj. D, utw fmtwf, gnjs xjwá vzj tx afnx f
itwrnw ijgfot ij yjhmfit, utwvzj jq xjwjst tx utiwíf ifñfw qf mjwnif,
uzjxyt vzj jx yfq qf rjinhnsf vzj xj tx mf uzjxyt, vzj st mfd vzj yjrjw ij
htsywfwnt fhnijsyj.

Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj df ifgf fq infgqt jq yfsyt mfgqfw ijq hfgwjwt, xtqnhnyó,
utw xz ufwyj, vzj xz frt xj jsywfxj f itwrnw js qf hmtef ij Ujiwt. Míetqt
fxí, d ytit qt ráx ij qf sthmj xj qj ufxó js rjrtwnfx ij xz xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf, f nrnyfhnós ij qtx frfsyjx ij Rfwhjqf. Xfshmt Ufsef xj fhtrtió
jsywj Wthnsfsyj d xz ozrjsyt, d izwrnó, st htrt jsfrtwfit ijxkfatwjhnit,
xnst htrt mtrgwj rtqnit f hthjx.





Hfuíyzqt CNNN. Itsij xj if kns fq hzjsyt ij qf ufxytwf Rfwhjqf, hts tywtx
xzhjxtx


Rfx, fujsfx htrjseó f ijxhzgwnwxj jq iíf utw qtx gfqhtsjx ijq twnjsyj,
hzfsit qtx hnsht ij qtx xjnx hfgwjwtx xj qjafsyfwts d kzjwts f ijxujwyfw f
its Vznotyj, d f ijhnqqj xn jxyfgf ytifaíf hts uwtuóxnyt ij nw f ajw jq
kfrtxt jsynjwwt ij Lwnxóxytrt, d vzj jqqtx qj mfwífs htrufñíf. Its Vznotyj,
vzj tywf htxf st ijxjfgf, xj qjafsyó d rfsió f Xfshmt vzj jsxnqqfxj d
jsfqgfwifxj fq rtrjsyt, qt hzfq éq mnet hts rzhmf inqnljshnf, d hts qf
rjxrf xj uzxnjwts qzjlt ytitx js hfrnst. D st mzgnjwts fsifit zs hzfwyt ij
qjlzf, hzfsit, fq hwzefw ij zsf xjsif, anjwts ajsnw mfhnf jqqtx mfxyf xjnx
ufxytwjx, ajxynitx hts ujqqnhtx sjlwtx d htwtsfifx qfx hfgjefx hts
lznwsfqifx ij hnuwéx d ij frfwlf fijqkf. Ywfíf hfif zst zs lwzjxt gfxyós ij
fhjgt js qf rfst. Ajsífs hts jqqtx, fxnrjxrt, itx ljsynqjx mtrgwjx ij f
hfgfqqt, rzd gnjs fijwjefitx ij hfrnst, hts tywtx ywjx rtetx ij f unj vzj
qtx fhtrufñfgfs. Js qqjlásitxj f ozsyfw, xj xfqzifwts htwyéxrjsyj, d,
uwjlzsyásitxj qtx zstx f qtx tywtx iósij ngfs, xzunjwts vzj ytitx xj
jshfrnsfgfs fq qzlfw ijq jsynjwwt; d fxí, htrjsefwts f hfrnsfw ytitx
ozsytx.

Zst ij qtx ij f hfgfqqt, mfgqfsit hts xz htrufñjwt, qj inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, xjñtw Anafqit, vzj mfgjrtx ij ifw utw gnjs jruqjfif qf yfwifsef
vzj mnhnéwjrtx js ajw jxyj kfrtxt jsynjwwt, vzj st utiwá ijofw ij xjw
kfrtxt, xjlús jxytx ufxytwjx stx mfs htsyfit jxywfñjefx, fsxí ijq rzjwyt
ufxytw htrt ij qf ufxytwf mtrnhnif.

-Fxí rj qt ufwjhj f rí -wjxutsinó Anafqit-; d st inlt dt mfhjw yfwifsef ij
zs iíf, ujwt ij hzfywt qf mnhnjwf f ywzjht ij ajwqj.

Uwjlzsyóqjx its Vznotyj vzé jwf qt vzj mfgífs tíit ij Rfwhjqf d ij
Lwnxóxytrt. Jq hfrnsfsyj inot vzj fvzjqqf rfiwzlfif mfgífs jshtsywfit hts
fvzjqqtx ufxytwjx, d vzj, utw mfgjwqjx anxyt js fvzjq yfs ywnxyj ywfoj, qjx
mfgífs uwjlzsyfit qf thfxnós utw vzj ngfs ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf; vzj zst ijqqtx
xj qt htsyó, htsyfsit qf jxywfñjef d mjwrtxzwf ij zsf ufxytwf qqfrfif
Rfwhjqf, d qtx frtwjx ij rzhmtx vzj qf wjhzjxyfgfs, hts qf rzjwyj ij fvzjq
Lwnxóxytrt f hzdt jsynjwwt ngfs. Knsfqrjsyj, éq htsyó ytit qt vzj Ujiwt f
its Vznotyj mfgíf htsyfit.

Hjxó jxyf uqáynhf d htrjseóxj tywf, uwjlzsyfsit jq vzj xj qqfrfgf Anafqit f
its Vznotyj vzé jwf qf thfxnós vzj qj rtaíf f fsifw fwrfit ij fvzjqqf
rfsjwf utw ynjwwf yfs ufhíknhf. F qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Qf uwtkjxnós ij rn jojwhnhnt st htsxnjsyj sn ujwrnyj vzj dt fsij ij tywf
rfsjwf. Jq gzjs ufxt, jq wjlfqt d jq wjutxt, fqqá xj nsajsyó ufwf qtx
gqfsitx htwyjxfstx; rfx jq ywfgfot, qf nsvznjyzi d qfx fwrfx xóqt xj
nsajsyfwts j mnhnjwts ufwf fvzjqqtx vzj jq rzsit qqfrf hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx,
ij qtx hzfqjx dt, fzsvzj nsinlst, xtd jq rjstw ij ytitx.

Fujsfx qj tdjwts jxyt, hzfsit ytitx qj yzanjwts utw qtht; d, utw
fajwnlzfwqt ráx d ajw vzé lésjwt ij qthzwf jwf jq xzdt, qj ytwsó f
uwjlzsyfw Anafqit vzj vzé vzjwíf ijhnw "hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx".

-¿St mfs azjxywfx rjwhjijx qjíit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- qtx fsfqjx j
mnxytwnfx ij Nslfqfyjwwf, itsij xj ywfyfs qfx kfrtxfx kfefñfx ijq wjd
Fwyzwt, vzj htsynszfrjsyj js szjxywt wtrfshj hfxyjqqfst qqfrfrtx jq wjd
Fwyúx, ij vznjs jx ywfinhnós fsynlzf d htrús js ytit fvzjq wjnst ij qf Lwfs
Gwjyfñf vzj jxyj wjd st rzwnó, xnst vzj, utw fwyj ij jshfsyfrjsyt, xj
htsanwynó js hzjwat, d vzj, fsifsit qtx ynjrutx, mf ij atqajw f wjnsfw d f
htgwfw xz wjnst d hjywt; f hzdf hfzxf st xj uwtgfwá vzj ijxij fvzjq ynjrut
f éxyj mfdf snslús nslqéx rzjwyt hzjwat fqlzst? Uzjx js ynjrut ij jxyj gzjs
wjd kzj nsxynyznif fvzjqqf kfrtxf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx ij
qf Yfgqf Wjitsif, d ufxfwts, xns kfqyfw zs uzsyt, qtx frtwjx vzj fqqí xj
hzjsyfs ij its Qfsefwtyj ijq Qflt hts qf wjnsf Lnsjgwf, xnjsit rjinfsjwf
ijqqtx d xfgnitwf fvzjqqf yfs mtswfif izjñf Vznsyfñtsf, ij itsij sfhnó
fvzjq yfs xfgnit wtrfshj, d yfs ijhfsyfit js szjxywf Jxufñf, ij:

   Szshf kzjwf hfgfqqjwt
   ij ifrfx yfs gnjs xjwanit
   htrt kzjwf Qfsefwtyj
   hzfsit ij Gwjyfñf anst;

hts fvzjq uwtlwjxt yfs izqhj d yfs xzfaj ij xzx frtwtxtx d kzjwyjx kjhmtx.
Uzjx ijxij jsytshjx, ij rfst js rfst, kzj fvzjqqf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf
jxyjsinésitxj d inqfyásitxj utw rzhmfx d inajwxfx ufwyjx ijq rzsit; d js
jqqf kzjwts kfrtxtx d htsthnitx utw xzx kjhmtx jq afqnjsyj Frfiíx ij Lfzqf,
hts ytitx xzx mnotx d snjytx, mfxyf qf vznsyf ljsjwfhnós, d jq afqjwtxt
Kjqncrfwyj ij Mnwhfsnf, d jq szshf htrt xj ijgj fqfgfit Ynwfsyj jq Gqfsht,
d hfxn vzj js szjxywtx iífx anrtx d htrzsnhfrtx d tírtx fq nsajshngqj d
afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt its Gjqnfsíx ij Lwjhnf. Jxyt, uzjx, xjñtwjx, jx xjw
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, d qf vzj mj inhmt jx qf twijs ij xz hfgfqqjwíf; js qf
hzfq, htrt tywf aje mj inhmt, dt, fzsvzj ujhfitw, mj mjhmt uwtkjxnós, d qt
rjxrt vzj uwtkjxfwts qtx hfgfqqjwtx wjkjwnitx uwtkjxt dt. D fxí, rj atd utw
jxyfx xtqjifijx d ijxutgqfitx gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx, hts ásnrt ijqngjwfit
ij tkwjhjw rn gwfet d rn ujwxtsf f qf ráx ujqnlwtxf vzj qf xzjwyj rj
ijufwfwj, js fdzif ij qtx kqfhtx d rjsjxyjwtxtx.

Utw jxyfx wfetsjx vzj inot, fhfgfwts ij jsyjwfwxj qtx hfrnsfsyjx vzj jwf
its Vznotyj kfqyt ij oznhnt, d ijq lésjwt ij qthzwf vzj qt xjñtwjfgf, ij qt
hzfq wjhngnjwts qf rjxrf firnwfhnós vzj wjhngífs ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj ij
szjat ajsífs js htsthnrnjsyt ijqqf. D Anafqit, vzj jwf ujwxtsf rzd inxhwjyf
d ij fqjlwj htsinhnós, utw ufxfw xns ujxfizrgwj jq utht hfrnst vzj ijhífs
vzj qjx kfqyfgf, fq qqjlfw f qf xnjwwf ijq jsynjwwt, vznxt ifwqj thfxnós f
vzj ufxfxj ráx fijqfsyj hts xzx inxufwfyjx. D fxí, qj inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf uwtkjxfit zsf ij
qfx ráx jxywjhmfx uwtkjxntsjx vzj mfd js qf ynjwwf, d yjslt ufwf rí vzj fzs
qf ij qtx kwfnqjx hfwyzotx st jx yfs jxywjhmf.

-Yfs jxywjhmf gnjs utiíf xjw -wjxutsinó szjxywt its Vznotyj-, ujwt yfs
sjhjxfwnf js jq rzsit st jxytd js itx ijitx ij utsjqqt js izif. Utwvzj, xn
af f ijhnw ajwifi, st mfhj rjstx jq xtqifit vzj utsj js jojhzhnós qt vzj xz
hfunyás qj rfsif vzj jq rjxrt hfunyás vzj xj qt twijsf. Vznjwt ijhnw vzj
qtx wjqnlntxtx, hts ytif ufe d xtxnjlt, unijs fq hnjqt jq gnjs ij qf
ynjwwf; ujwt qtx xtqifitx d hfgfqqjwtx utsjrtx js jojhzhnós qt vzj jqqtx
unijs, ijkjsinésitqf hts jq afqtw ij szjxywtx gwfetx d knqtx ij szjxywfx
jxufifx; st ijgfot ij hzgnjwyf, xnst fq hnjqt fgnjwyt, uzjxytx utw gqfsht
ij qtx nsxzkwngqjx wfdtx ijq xtq js ajwfst d ij qtx jwnefitx djqtx ijq
nsanjwst. Fxí vzj, xtrtx rnsnxywtx ij Intx js qf ynjwwf, d gwfetx utw vznjs
xj jojhzyf js jqqf xz ozxynhnf. D, htrt qfx htxfx ij qf lzjwwf d qfx f
jqqfx ythfsyjx d htshjwsnjsyjx st xj uzjijs utsjw js jojhzhnós xnst
xzifsit, fkfsfsit d ywfgfofsit, xílzjxj vzj fvzjqqtx vzj qf uwtkjxfs
ynjsjs, xns izif, rfdtw ywfgfot vzj fvzjqqtx vzj js xtxjlfif ufe d wjutxt
jxyás wtlfsit f Intx kfatwjehf f qtx vzj utht uzjijs. St vznjwt dt ijhnw,
sn rj ufxf utw ujsxfrnjsyt, vzj jx yfs gzjs jxyfit jq ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj
htrt jq ijq jshjwwfit wjqnlntxt; xóqt vznjwt nskjwnw, utw qt vzj dt
ufijeht, vzj, xns izif, jx ráx ywfgfotxt d ráx futwwjfit, d ráx mfrgwnjsyt
d xjinjsyt, rnxjwfgqj, wtyt d untotxt; utwvzj st mfd izif xnst vzj qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ufxfitx ufxfwts rzhmf rfqfajsyzwf js jq inxhzwxt ij xz
anif. D xn fqlzstx xzgnjwts f xjw jrujwfitwjx utw jq afqtw ij xz gwfet, f
kj vzj qjx htxyó gzjs utwvzé ij xz xfslwj d ij xz xzitw; d vzj xn f qtx vzj
f yfq lwfit xzgnjwts qjx kfqyfwfs jshfsyfitwjx d xfgntx vzj qtx fdzifwfs,
vzj jqqtx vzjifwfs gnjs ijkwfzifitx ij xzx ijxjtx d gnjs jslfñfitx ij xzx
jxujwfsefx.

-Ij jxj ufwjhjw jxytd dt -wjuqnhó jq hfrnsfsyj-; ujwt zsf htxf, jsywj tywfx
rzhmfx, rj ufwjhj rzd rfq ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, d jx vzj, hzfsit xj
ajs js thfxnós ij fhtrjyjw zsf lwfsij d ujqnlwtxf fajsyzwf, js vzj xj ajj
rfsnknjxyt ujqnlwt ij ujwijw qf anif, szshf js fvzjq nsxyfsyj ij fhtrjyjqqf
xj fhzjwifs ij jshtrjsifwxj f Intx, htrt hfif hwnxynfst jxyá tgqnlfit f
mfhjw js ujqnlwtx xjrjofsyjx; fsyjx, xj jshtrnjsifs f xzx ifrfx, hts yfsyf
lfsf d ijathnós htrt xn jqqfx kzjwfs xz Intx: htxf vzj rj ufwjhj vzj mzjqj
fqlt f ljsynqnifi.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, jxt st uzjij xjw rjstx js snslzsf rfsjwf, d
hfjwíf js rfq hfxt jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj vzj tywf htxf mnhnjxj; vzj df jxyá
js zxt d htxyzrgwj js qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyjxhf vzj jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj
vzj, fq fhtrjyjw fqlús lwfs kjhmt ij fwrfx, yzanjxj xz xjñtwf
ijqfsyj,azjqaf f jqqf qtx totx gqfsif d frtwtxfrjsyj, htrt vzj qj unij hts
jqqtx qj kfatwjehf d frufwj js jq izitxt ywfshj vzj fhtrjyj; d fzs xn sfinj
qj tdj, jxyá tgqnlfit f ijhnw fqlzsfx ufqfgwfx jsywj injsyjx, js vzj ij
ytit htwfeós xj qj jshtrnjsij; d ijxyt yjsjrtx nsszrjwfgqjx jojruqtx js qfx
mnxytwnfx. D st xj mf ij jsyjsijw utw jxyt vzj mfs ij ijofw ij jshtrjsifwxj
f Intx; vzj ynjrut d qzlfw qjx vzjif ufwf mfhjwqt js jq inxhzwxt ij qf
tgwf.

-Hts ytit jxt -wjuqnhó jq hfrnsfsyj-, rj vzjif zs jxhwúuzqt, d jx vzj
rzhmfx ajhjx mj qjíit vzj xj ywfgfs ufqfgwfx jsywj itx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx,
d, ij zsf js tywf, xj qjx anjsj f jshjsijw qf hóqjwf, d f atqajw qtx
hfgfqqtx d ytrfw zsf gzjsf unjef ijq hfrut, d qzjlt, xns ráx sn ráx, f ytit
jq htwwjw ijqqtx, xj azjqajs f jshtsywfw; d, js rnyfi ij qf htwwnif, xj
jshtrnjsifs f xzx ifrfx; d qt vzj xzjqj xzhjijw ijq jshzjsywt jx vzj jq zst
hfj utw qfx fshfx ijq hfgfqqt, ufxfit hts qf qfsef ijq htsywfwnt ij ufwyj f
ufwyj, d fq tywt qj anjsj yfrgnés vzj, f st yjsjwxj f qfx hwnsjx ijq xzdt,
st uzinjwf ijofw ij ajsnw fq xzjqt. D st xé dt hórt jq rzjwyt yzat qzlfw
ufwf jshtrjsifwxj f Intx js jq inxhzwxt ij jxyf yfs fhjqjwfif tgwf. Rjotw
kzjwf vzj qfx ufqfgwfx vzj js qf hfwwjwf lfxyó jshtrjsiásitxj f xz ifrf qfx
lfxyfwf js qt vzj ijgíf d jxyfgf tgqnlfit htrt hwnxynfst. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj
dt yjslt ufwf rí vzj st ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ynjsjs ifrfx f vznjs
jshtrjsifwxj, utwvzj st ytitx xts jsfrtwfitx.

-Jxt st uzjij xjw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: inlt vzj st uzjij xjw vzj mfdf
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj xns ifrf, utwvzj yfs uwtuwnt d yfs sfyzwfq qjx jx f qtx
yfqjx xjw jsfrtwfitx htrt fq hnjqt yjsjw jxywjqqfx, d f gzjs xjlzwt vzj st
xj mfdf anxyt mnxytwnf itsij xj mfqqj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj xns frtwjx; d utw
jq rjxrt hfxt vzj jxyzanjxj xns jqqtx, st xjwíf yjsnit utw qjlíynrt
hfgfqqjwt, xnst utw gfxyfwit, d vzj jsywó js qf ktwyfqjef ij qf hfgfqqjwíf
inhmf, st utw qf uzjwyf, xnst utw qfx gfwifx, htrt xfqyjfitw d qfiwós.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot jq hfrnsfsyj-, rj ufwjhj, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, mfgjw
qjíit vzj its Lfqftw, mjwrfst ijq afqjwtxt Frfiíx ij Lfzqf, szshf yzat ifrf
xjñfqfif f vznjs uzinjxj jshtrjsifwxj; d, hts ytit jxyt, st kzj yjsnit js
rjstx, d kzj zs rzd afqnjsyj d kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó szjxywt its Vznotyj:

-Xjñtw, zsf ltqtsiwnsf xtqf st mfhj ajwfst. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt xé vzj ij
xjhwjyt jxyfgf jxj hfgfqqjwt rzd gnjs jsfrtwfit; kzjwf vzj, fvzjqqt ij
vzjwjw f ytifx gnjs hzfsyfx gnjs qj ufwjhífs jwf htsinhnós sfyzwfq, f vznjs
st utiíf nw f qf rfst. Ujwt, js wjxtqzhnós, fajwnlzfit jxyá rzd gnjs vzj éq
yjsíf zsf xtqf f vznjs éq mfgíf mjhmt xjñtwf ij xz atqzsyfi, f qf hzfq xj
jshtrjsifgf rzd f rjszit d rzd xjhwjyfrjsyj, utwvzj xj uwjhnó ij xjhwjyt
hfgfqqjwt.

-Qzjlt, xn jx ij jxjshnf vzj ytit hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mfdf ij xjw jsfrtwfit
-inot jq hfrnsfsyj-, gnjs xj uzjij hwjjw vzj azjxywf rjwhji qt jx, uzjx jx
ij qf uwtkjxnós. D xn jx vzj azjxywf rjwhji st xj uwjhnf ij xjw yfs xjhwjyt
htrt its Lfqftw, hts qfx ajwfx vzj uzjit qj xzuqnht, js strgwj ij ytif jxyf
htrufñíf d js jq rít, stx inlf jq strgwj, ufywnf, hfqnifi d mjwrtxzwf ij xz
ifrf; vzj jqqf xj yjsiwíf utw inhmtxf ij vzj ytit jq rzsit xjuf vzj jx
vzjwnif d xjwanif ij zs yfq hfgfqqjwt htrt azjxywf rjwhji ufwjhj.

Fvzí int zs lwfs xzxunwt its Vznotyj, d inot:

-Dt st utiwé fknwrfw xn qf izqhj rn jsjrnlf lzxyf, t st, ij vzj jq rzsit
xjuf vzj dt qf xnwat; xóqt xé ijhnw, wjxutsinjsit f qt vzj hts yfsyt
htrjinrnjsyt xj rj unij, vzj xz strgwj jx Izqhnsjf; xz ufywnf, jq Ytgtxt,
zs qzlfw ij qf Rfshmf; xz hfqnifi, utw qt rjstx, mf ij xjw ij uwnshjxf,
uzjx jx wjnsf d xjñtwf ríf; xz mjwrtxzwf, xtgwjmzrfsf, uzjx js jqqf xj
anjsjs f mfhjw ajwifijwtx ytitx qtx nrutxngqjx d vznréwnhtx fywngzytx ij
gjqqjef vzj qtx utjyfx ifs f xzx ifrfx: vzj xzx hfgjqqtx xts twt, xz kwjsyj
hfrutx jqíxjtx, xzx hjofx fwhtx ijq hnjqt, xzx totx xtqjx, xzx rjonqqfx
wtxfx, xzx qfgntx htwfqjx, ujwqfx xzx injsyjx, fqfgfxywt xz hzjqqt, ráwrtq
xz ujhmt, rfwknq xzx rfstx, xz gqfshzwf snjaj, d qfx ufwyjx vzj f qf anxyf
mzrfsf jshzgwnó qf mtsjxynifi xts yfqjx, xjlús dt unjsxt d jsynjsit, vzj
xóqt qf inxhwjyf htsxnijwfhnós uzjij jshfwjhjwqfx, d st htrufwfwqfx.

-Jq qnsfoj, uwtxfunf d fqhzwsnf vzjwwífrtx xfgjw -wjuqnhó Anafqit.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-St jx ij qtx fsynlztx Hzwhntx, Lfdtx d Hnuntsjx wtrfstx, sn ij qtx
rtijwstx Htqtsfx d Zwxnstx; sn ij qtx Rtshfifx d Wjvzjxjsjx ij Hfyfqzñf, sn
rjstx ij qtx Wjgjqqfx d Anqqfstafx ij Afqjshnf; Ufqfktcjx, Szefx,
Wthfgjwynx, Htwjqqfx, Qzsfx, Fqfltsjx, Zwwjfx, Kthjx d Lzwwjfx ij Fwflós;
Hjwifx, Rfswnvzjx, Rjsitefx d Lzerfsjx ij Hfxynqqf; Fqjshfxywtx, Ufqqfx d
Rjsjxjx ij Utwytlfq; ujwt jx ij qtx ijq Ytgtxt ij qf Rfshmf, qnsfoj, fzsvzj
rtijwst, yfq, vzj uzjij ifw ljsjwtxt uwnshnunt f qfx ráx nqzxywjx kfrnqnfx
ij qtx ajsnijwtx xnlqtx. D st xj rj wjuqnvzj js jxyt, xn st kzjwj hts qfx
htsinhntsjx vzj uzxt Hjwanst fq unj ijq ywtkjt ij qfx fwrfx ij Twqfsit, vzj
ijhíf:

   sfinj qfx rzjaf
   vzj jxyfw st uzjif hts Wtqiás f uwzjgf.

-Fzsvzj jq rít jx ij qtx Hfhmtunsjx ij Qfwjit -wjxutsinó jq hfrnsfsyj-, st
qj txfwé dt utsjw hts jq ijq Ytgtxt ij qf Rfshmf, uzjxyt vzj, ufwf ijhnw
ajwifi, xjrjofsyj fujqqnit mfxyf fmtwf st mf qqjlfit f rnx tíitx.

-¡Htrt jxt st mfgwá qqjlfit! -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

Hts lwfs fyjshnós ngfs jxhzhmfsit ytitx qtx ijráx qf uqáynhf ij qtx itx, d
fzs mfxyf qtx rjxrtx hfgwjwtx d ufxytwjx htsthnjwts qf ijrfxnfif kfqyf ij
oznhnt ij szjxywt its Vznotyj. Xóqt Xfshmt Ufsef ujsxfgf vzj hzfsyt xz frt
ijhíf jwf ajwifi, xfgnjsit éq vznés jwf d mfgnésitqj htsthnit ijxij xz
sfhnrnjsyt; d js qt vzj izifgf fqlt jwf js hwjjw fvzjqqt ij qf qnsif
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, utwvzj szshf yfq strgwj sn yfq uwnshjxf mfgíf qqjlfit
ofráx f xz stynhnf, fzsvzj anaíf yfs hjwhf ijq Ytgtxt.

Js jxyfx uqáynhfx ngfs, hzfsit anjwts vzj, utw qf vznjgwf vzj itx fqyfx
rtsyfñfx mfhífs, gfofgfs mfxyf ajnsyj ufxytwjx, ytitx hts ujqqnhtx ij sjlwf
qfsf ajxynitx d htwtsfitx hts lznwsfqifx, vzj, f qt vzj ijxuzéx ufwjhnó,
jwfs hzáq ij yjot d hzáq ij hnuwéx. Jsywj xjnx ijqqtx ywfífs zsfx fsifx,
hzgnjwyfx ij rzhmf inajwxnifi ij kqtwjx d ij wfrtx. Qt hzfq anxyt utw zst
ij qtx hfgwjwtx, inot:

-Fvzjqqtx vzj fqqí anjsjs xts qtx vzj ywfjs jq hzjwut ij Lwnxóxytrt, d jq
unj ij fvzjqqf rtsyfñf jx jq qzlfw itsij éq rfsió vzj qj jsyjwwfxjs.
Utw jxyt xj injwts uwnjxf f qqjlfw, d kzj f ynjrut vzj df qtx vzj ajsífs
mfgífs uzjxyt qfx fsifx js jq xzjqt; d hzfywt ijqqtx hts flzitx unhtx
jxyfgfs hfafsit qf xjuzqyzwf f zs qfit ij zsf izwf ujñf.

Wjhngnéwtsxj qtx zstx d qtx tywtx htwyéxrjsyj; d qzjlt its Vznotyj d qtx
vzj hts éq ajsífs xj uzxnjwts f rnwfw qfx fsifx, d js jqqfx anjwts hzgnjwyt
ij kqtwjx zs hzjwut rzjwyt, ajxynit htrt ufxytw, ij jifi, fq ufwjhjw, ij
ywjnsyf fñtx; d, fzsvzj rzjwyt, rtxywfgf vzj anat mfgíf xnit ij wtxywt
mjwrtxt d ij inxutxnhnós lfqqfwif. Fqwjijitw iéq yjsíf js qfx rjxrfx
fsifx fqlzstx qngwtx d rzhmtx ufujqjx, fgnjwytx d hjwwfitx. D fxí qtx vzj
jxyt rnwfgfs, htrt qtx vzj fgwífs qf xjuzqyzwf, d ytitx qtx ijráx vzj fqqí
mfgíf, lzfwifgfs zs rfwfanqqtxt xnqjshnt, mfxyf vzj zst ij qtx vzj fq
rzjwyt ywzojwts inot f tywt:

-Rnwá gnjs, Frgwtxnt, xn jx éxyj jq qzlfw vzj Lwnxóxytrt inot, df vzj
vzjwénx vzj yfs uzsyzfqrjsyj xj hzruqf qt vzj ijoó rfsifit js xz
yjxyfrjsyt.

-Éxyj jx -wjxutsinó Frgwtxnt-; vzj rzhmfx ajhjx js éq rj htsyó rn
ijxinhmfit frnlt qf mnxytwnf ij xz ijxajsyzwf. Fqqí rj inot éq vzj ant qf
aje uwnrjwf f fvzjqqf jsjrnlf rtwyfq ijq qnsfoj mzrfst, d fqqí kzj yfrgnés
itsij qf uwnrjwf aje qj ijhqfwó xz ujsxfrnjsyt, yfs mtsjxyt htrt jsfrtwfit,
d fqqí kzj qf úqynrf aje itsij Rfwhjqf qj fhfgó ij ijxjslfñfw d ijxijñfw,
ij xzjwyj vzj uzxt kns f qf ywfljinf ij xz rnxjwfgqj anif. D fvzí, js
rjrtwnf ij yfsyfx ijxinhmfx, vznxt éq vzj qj ijutxnyfxjs js qfx jsywfñfx
ijq jyjwst tqanit.

D, atqanésitxj f its Vznotyj d f qtx hfrnsfsyjx, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-Jxj hzjwut, xjñtwjx, vzj hts unfitxtx totx jxyánx rnwfsit, kzj ijutxnyfwnt
ij zs fqrf js vznjs jq hnjqt uzxt nsknsnyf ufwyj ij xzx wnvzjefx. Éxj jx jq
hzjwut ij Lwnxóxytrt, vzj kzj úsnht js jq nsljsnt, xtqt js qf htwyjxíf,
jxywjrt js qf ljsynqjef, késnc js qf frnxyfi, rflsíknht xns yfxf, lwfaj xns
uwjxzshnós, fqjlwj xns gfojef, d, knsfqrjsyj, uwnrjwt js ytit qt vzj jx xjw
gzjst, d xns xjlzsit js ytit qt vzj kzj xjw ijxinhmfit. Vznxt gnjs, kzj
fgtwwjhnit; fitwó, kzj ijxijñfit; wtló f zsf knjwf, nrutwyzsó f zs ráwrtq,
htwwnó ywfx jq anjsyt, int athjx f qf xtqjifi, xnwanó f qf nslwfynyzi, ij
vznjs fqhfseó utw uwjrnt xjw ijxutotx ij qf rzjwyj js qf rnyfi ij qf
hfwwjwf ij xz anif, f qf hzfq int kns zsf ufxytwf f vznjs éq uwthzwfgf
jyjwsnefw ufwf vzj ananjwf js qf rjrtwnf ij qfx ljsyjx, hzfq qt uzinjwfs
rtxywfw gnjs jxtx ufujqjx vzj jxyánx rnwfsit, xn éq st rj mzgnjwf rfsifit
vzj qtx jsywjlfwf fq kzjlt js mfgnjsit jsywjlfit xz hzjwut f qf ynjwwf.
-Ij rfdtw wnltw d hwzjqifi zxfwénx atx hts jqqtx -inot Anafqit- vzj xz
rjxrt izjñt, uzjx st jx ozxyt sn fhjwyfit vzj xj hzruqf qf atqzsyfi ij
vznjs qt vzj twijsf af kzjwf ij ytit wfetsfgqj inxhzwxt. D st qj yzanjwf
gzjst Fzlzxyt Héxfw xn htsxnsynjwf vzj xj uzxnjwf js jojhzhnós qt vzj jq
inanst Rfsyzfst ijoó js xz yjxyfrjsyt rfsifit. Fsxí vzj, xjñtw Frgwtxnt, df
vzj ijnx jq hzjwut ij azjxywt frnlt f qf ynjwwf, st vzjwánx ifw xzx
jxhwnytx fq tqanit; vzj xn éq twijsó htrt flwfanfit, st jx gnjs vzj atx
hzruqánx htrt nsinxhwjyt. Fsyjx mfhji, ifsit qf anif f jxytx ufujqjx, vzj
qf yjslf xnjruwj qf hwzjqifi ij Rfwhjqf, ufwf vzj xnwaf ij jojruqt, js qtx
ynjrutx vzj jxyás utw ajsnw, f qtx ananjsyjx, ufwf vzj xj fufwyjs d mzdfs
ij hfjw js xjrjofsyjx ijxujñfijwtx; vzj df xé dt, d qtx vzj fvzí ajsnrtx,
qf mnxytwnf ijxyj azjxywt jsfrtwfit d ijxjxujwfit frnlt, d xfgjrtx qf
frnxyfi azjxywf, d qf thfxnós ij xz rzjwyj, d qt vzj ijoó rfsifit fq fhfgfw
ij qf anif; ij qf hzfq qfrjsyfgqj mnxytwnf xj uzjij xfhfw hzásyt mfdf xnit
qf hwzjqifi ij Rfwhjqf, jq frtw ij Lwnxóxytrt, qf kj ij qf frnxyfi azjxywf,
hts jq ufwfijwt vzj ynjsjs qtx vzj f wnjsif xzjqyf htwwjs utw qf xjsif vzj
jq ijxafwnfit frtw ijqfsyj ij qtx totx qjx utsj. Fsthmj xzunrtx qf rzjwyj
ij Lwnxóxytrt, d vzj js jxyj qzlfw mfgíf ij xjw jsyjwwfit; d fxí, ij
hzwntxnifi d ij qáxynrf, ijofrtx szjxywt ijwjhmt anfoj, d fhtwifrtx ij
ajsnw f ajw hts qtx totx qt vzj yfsyt stx mfgíf qfxynrfit js tíqqt. D, js
uflt ijxyf qáxynrf d ijq ijxjt vzj js stxtywtx sfhnó ij wjrjinfqqf xn
uzinéwfrtx, yj wtlfrtx, ¡tm inxhwjyt Frgwtxnt! (f qt rjstx, dt yj qt
xzuqnht ij rn ufwyj), vzj, ijofsit ij fgwfxfw jxytx ufujqjx, rj ijojx
qqjafw fqlzstx ijqqtx.

D, xns flzfwifw vzj jq ufxytw wjxutsinjxj, fqfwló qf rfst d ytró fqlzstx ij
qtx vzj ráx hjwhf jxyfgfs; anjsit qt hzfq Frgwtxnt, inot:

-Utw htwyjxíf htsxjsynwé vzj tx vzjiénx, xjñtw, hts qtx vzj df mfgénx
ytrfit; ujwt ujsxfw vzj ijofwé ij fgwfxfw qtx vzj vzjifs jx ujsxfrnjsyt
afst.

Anafqit, vzj ijxjfgf ajw qt vzj qtx ufujqjx ijhífs, fgwnó qzjlt jq zst
ijqqtx d ant vzj yjsíf utw yíyzqt: Hfshnós ijxjxujwfif. Tdóqt Frgwtxnt d
inot:

-Éxj jx jq úqynrt ufujq vzj jxhwngnó jq ijxinhmfit; d, utwvzj ajánx, xjñtw,
js jq yéwrnst vzj qj yjsífs xzx ijxajsyzwfx, qjjqij ij rtit vzj xjánx tíit;
vzj gnjs tx ifwá qzlfw f jqqt jq vzj xj yfwifwj js fgwnw qf xjuzqyzwf.

-Jxt mfwé dt ij rzd gzjsf lfsf -inot Anafqit.

D, htrt ytitx qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx yjsífs jq rjxrt ijxjt, xj qj uzxnjwts f qf
wjitsif; d éq, qjdjsit js ate hqfwf, ant vzj fxí ijhíf:





Hfuíyzqt CNA. Itsij xj utsjs qtx ajwxtx ijxjxujwfitx ijq inkzsyt ufxytw,
hts tywtx st jxujwfitx xzhjxtx


Hfshnós ij Lwnxóxytrt

   Df vzj vznjwjx, hwzjq, vzj xj uzgqnvzj,
   ij qjslzf js qjslzf d ij zsf js tywf ljsyj,
   ijq áxujwt wnltw yzdt qf kzjwef,
   mfwé vzj jq rjxrt nsknjwst htrzsnvzj
   fq ywnxyj ujhmt rít zs xts itqnjsyj,
   hts vzj jq zxt htrús ij rn ate yzjwef.
   D fq ufw ij rn ijxjt, vzj xj jxkzjwef
   f ijhnw rn itqtw d yzx mfefñfx,
   ij qf jxufsyfgqj ate nwá jq fhjsyt,
   d js éq rjehqfifx, utw rfdtw ytwrjsyt,
   ujifetx ij qfx ríxjwfx jsywfñfx.
   Jxhzhmf, uzjx, d uwjxyf fyjsyt tíit,
   st fq htshjwyfit xts, xnst fq wünit
   vzj ij qt mtsit ij rn frfwlt ujhmt,
   qqjafit ij zs ktwetxt ijxafwít,
   utw lzxyt rít xfqj d yz ijxujhmt.

   Jq wzlnw ijq qjós, ijq qtgt knjwt
   jq yjrjwtxt fzqqnit, jq xnqgt mtwwjsit
   ij jxhfrtxf xjwunjsyj, jq jxufsyfgqj
   gfqfiwt ij fqlús rtsxywzt, jq fltwjwt
   lwfesfw ij qf htwsjof, d jq jxywzjsit
   ijq anjsyt htsywfxyfit js rfw nsxyfgqj;
   ijq df ajshnit ytwt jq nruqfhfgqj
   gwfrnit, d ij qf anzif ytwytqnqqf
   jq xjsyngqj fwwzqqfw; jq ywnxyj hfsyt
   ijq jsaninfit gúmt, hts jq qqfsyt
   ij ytif qf nskjwsfq sjlwf hzfiwnqqf,
   xfqlfs hts qf itqnjsyj ásnrf kzjwf,
   rjehqfitx js zs xts, ij yfq rfsjwf
   vzj xj htskzsifs qtx xjsynitx ytitx,
   uzjx qf ujsf hwzjq vzj js rí xj mfqqf
   ufwf htsyfqqf unij szjatx rtitx.

   Ij yfsyf htskzxnós st qfx fwjsfx
   ijq ufiwj Yfot tnwás qtx ywnxyjx jhtx,
   sn ijq kfrtxt Gjynx qfx tqnafx:
   vzj fqqí xj jxufwhnwás rnx izwfx ujsfx
   js fqytx wnxhtx d js uwtkzsitx mzjhtx,
   hts rzjwyf qjslzf d hts ufqfgwfx anafx;
   t df js jxhzwtx afqqjx, t js jxvznafx
   uqfdfx, ijxszifx ij htsywfyt mzrfst,
   t fitsij jq xtq ofráx rtxywó xz qzrgwj,
   t jsywj qf ajsjstxf rzhmjizrgwj
   ij knjwfx vzj fqnrjsyf jq qngnt qqfst;
   vzj, uzjxyt vzj js qtx uáwfrtx ijxnjwytx
   qtx jhtx wtshtx ij rn rfq, nshnjwytx,
   xzjsjs hts yz wnltw yfs xns xjlzsit,
   utw uwnanqjlnt ij rnx htwytx mfitx,
   xjwás qqjafitx utw jq fshmt rzsit.

   Rfyf zs ijxiés, fynjwwf qf ufhnjshnf,
   t ajwifijwf t kfqxf, zsf xtxujhmf;
   rfyfs qtx hjqtx hts wnltw ráx kzjwyj;
   ijxhtshnjwyf qf anif qfwlf fzxjshnf;
   htsywf zs yjrtw ij tqanit st fuwtajhmf
   knwrj jxujwfsef ij inhmtxf xzjwyj.
   Js ytit mfd hnjwyf, nsjanyfgqj rzjwyj;
   rfx dt, ¡rnqflwt szshf anxyt!, anat
   hjqtxt, fzxjsyj, ijxijñfit d hnjwyt
   ij qfx xtxujhmfx vzj rj ynjsjs rzjwyt;
   d js jq tqanit js vznjs rn kzjlt fanat,
   d, jsywj yfsytx ytwrjsytx, szshf fqhfsef
   rn anxyf f ajw js xtrgwf f qf jxujwfsef,
   sn dt, ijxjxujwfit, qf uwthzwt;
   fsyjx, utw jxywjrfwrj js rn vzjwjqqf,
   jxyfw xns jqqf jyjwsfrjsyj ozwt.

   ¿Uzéijxj, utw ajsyzwf, js zs nsxyfsyj
   jxujwfw d yjrjw, t jx gnjs mfhjqqt,
   xnjsit qfx hfzxfx ijq yjrtw ráx hnjwyfx?
   ¿Yjslt, xn jq izwt hjqt jxyá ijqfsyj,
   ij hjwwfw jxytx totx, xn mj ij ajqqt
   utw rnq mjwnifx js jq fqrf fgnjwyfx?
   ¿Vznés st fgwnwá ij ufw js ufw qfx uzjwyfx
   f qf ijxhtsknfsef, hzfsit rnwf
   ijxhzgnjwyt jq ijxiés, d qfx xtxujhmfx,
   ¡tm frfwlf htsajwxnós!, ajwifijx mjhmfx,
   d qf qnrunf ajwifi azjqyf js rjsynwf?
   ¡Tm, js jq wjnst ij frtw knjwtx ynwfstx
   hjqtx, utsjirj zs mnjwwt js jxyfx rfstx!
   Ifrj, ijxiés, zsf ytwhnif xtlf.
   Rfx, ¡fd ij rí!, vzj, hts hwzjq anytwnf,
   azjxywf rjrtwnf jq xzkwnrnjsyt fmtlf.

   Dt rzjwt, js kns; d, utwvzj szshf jxujwj
   gzjs xzhjxt js qf rzjwyj sn js qf anif,
   ujwynsfe jxyfwé js rn kfsyfxíf.
   Inwé vzj af fhjwyfit jq vzj gnjs vznjwj,
   d vzj jx ráx qngwj jq fqrf ráx wjsinif
   f qf ij frtw fsynlzf ynwfsíf.
   Inwé vzj qf jsjrnlf xnjruwj ríf
   mjwrtxf jq fqrf htrt jq hzjwut ynjsj,
   d vzj xz tqanit ij rn hzquf sfhj,
   d vzj, js kj ij qtx rfqjx vzj stx mfhj,
   frtw xz nrujwnt js ozxyf ufe rfsynjsj.
   D, hts jxyf tunsnós d zs izwt qfet,
   fhjqjwfsit jq rnxjwfgqj uqfet
   f vzj rj mfs htsizhnit xzx ijxijsjx,
   tkwjhjwé f qtx anjsytx hzjwut d fqrf,
   xns qfzwt t ufqrf ij kzyzwtx gnjsjx.

   Yú, vzj hts yfsyfx xnswfetsjx rzjxywfx
   qf wfeós vzj rj kzjwef f vzj qf mflf
   f qf hfsxfif anif vzj fgtwwjeht,
   uzjx df ajx vzj yj if stytwnfx rzjxywfx
   jxyf ijq htwfeós uwtkzsif qqflf,
   ij hórt, fqjlwj, f yz wnltw rj tkwjeht,
   xn, utw inhmf, htsthjx vzj rjwjeht
   vzj jq hnjqt hqfwt ij yzx gjqqtx totx
   js rn rzjwyj xj yzwgj, st qt mflfx;
   vzj st vznjwt vzj js sfif xfynxkflfx,
   fq ifwyj ij rn fqrf qtx ijxutotx.
   Fsyjx, hts wnxf js qf thfxnós kzsjxyf,
   ijxhzgwj vzj jq kns rít kzj yz knjxyf;
   rfx lwfs xnruqjef jx fanxfwyj ijxyt,
   uzjx xé vzj jxyá yz lqtwnf htsthnif
   js vzj rn anif qqjlzj fq kns yfs uwjxyt.

   Ajslf, vzj jx ynjrut df, ijq mtsit fgnxrt
   Yásyfqt hts xz xji; Xíxnkt ajslf
   hts jq ujxt yjwwngqj ij xz hfsyt;
   Ynhnt ywfdf xz gznywj, d fsxnrnxrt
   hts xz wzjif Jlïós st xj ijyjslf,
   sn qfx mjwrfsfx vzj ywfgfofs yfsyt;
   d ytitx ozsytx xz rtwyfq vzjgwfsyt
   ywfxqfijs js rn ujhmt, d js ate gfof
   -xn df f zs ijxjxujwfit xts ijgnifx-
   hfsyjs tgxjvznfx ywnxyjx, itqtwnifx,
   fq hzjwut f vznjs xj snjlzj fzs qf rtwyfof.
   D jq utwyjwt nskjwsfq ij qtx ywjx wtxywtx,
   hts tywfx rnq vznrjwfx d rnq rtsxywtx,
   qqjajs jq itqtwtxt htsywfuzsyt;
   vzj tywf utruf rjotw st rj ufwjhj
   vzj qf rjwjhj zs frfitw inkzsyt.

   Hfshnós ijxjxujwfif, st yj vzjojx
   hzfsit rn ywnxyj htrufñíf ijojx;
   fsyjx, uzjx vzj qf hfzxf it sfhnxyj
   hts rn ijxinhmf fzlrjsyf xz ajsyzwf,
   fzs js qf xjuzqyzwf st jxyéx ywnxyj.

Gnjs qjx ufwjhnó, f qtx vzj jxhzhmfit mfgífs, qf hfshnós ij Lwnxóxytrt,
uzjxyt vzj jq vzj qf qjdó inot vzj st qj ufwjhíf vzj htsktwrfgf hts qf
wjqfhnós vzj éq mfgíf tíit ijq wjhfyt d gtsifi ij Rfwhjqf, utwvzj js jqqf
xj vzjofgf Lwnxóxytrt ij hjqtx, xtxujhmfx d ij fzxjshnf, ytit js ujwoznhnt
ijq gzjs hwéinyt d gzjsf kfrf ij Rfwhjqf. F qt hzfq wjxutsinó Frgwtxnt,
htrt fvzjq vzj xfgíf gnjs qtx ráx jxhtsinitx ujsxfrnjsytx ij xz frnlt:
-Ufwf vzj, xjñtw, tx xfynxkflánx ijxf izif, jx gnjs vzj xjuánx vzj hzfsit
jxyj ijxinhmfit jxhwngnó jxyf hfshnós jxyfgf fzxjsyj ij Rfwhjqf, ij vznjs
éq xj mfgíf fzxjsyfit utw xz atqzsyfi, utw ajw xn zxfgf hts éq qf fzxjshnf
ij xzx twinsfwntx kzjwtx. D, htrt fq jsfrtwfit fzxjsyj st mfd htxf vzj st
qj kfynlzj sn yjrtw vzj st qj ié fqhfshj, fxí qj kfynlfgfs f Lwnxóxytrt qtx
hjqtx nrflnsfitx d qfx xtxujhmfx yjrnifx htrt xn kzjwfs ajwifijwfx. D hts
jxyt vzjif js xz uzsyt qf ajwifi vzj qf kfrf uwjltsf ij qf gtsifi ij
Rfwhjqf; qf hzfq, kzjwf ij xjw hwzjq, d zs utht fwwtlfsyj d zs rzhmt
ijxijñtxf, qf rjxrf jsaninf sn ijgj sn uzjij utsjwqj kfqyf fqlzsf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó Anafqit.

D, vzjwnjsit qjjw tywt ufujq ij qtx vzj mfgíf wjxjwafit ijq kzjlt, qt
jxytwgó zsf rfwfanqqtxf anxnós -vzj yfq ufwjhíf jqqf- vzj nruwtanxfrjsyj xj
qjx tkwjhnó f qtx totx; d kzj vzj, utw hnrf ij qf ujñf itsij xj hfafgf qf
xjuzqyzwf, ufwjhnó qf ufxytwf Rfwhjqf, yfs mjwrtxf vzj ufxfgf f xz kfrf xz
mjwrtxzwf. Qtx vzj mfxyf jsytshjx st qf mfgífs anxyt qf rnwfgfs hts
firnwfhnós d xnqjshnt, d qtx vzj df jxyfgfs fhtxyzrgwfitx f ajwqf st
vzjifwts rjstx xzxujsxtx vzj qtx vzj szshf qf mfgífs anxyt. Rfx, fujsfx qf
mzgt anxyt Frgwtxnt, hzfsit, hts rzjxywfx ij ásnrt nsinlsfit, qj inot:

-¿Anjsjx f ajw, utw ajsyzwf, ¡tm knjwt gfxnqnxht ijxyfx rtsyfñfx!, xn hts
yz uwjxjshnf anjwyjs xfslwj qfx mjwnifx ijxyj rnxjwfgqj f vznjs yz hwzjqifi
vznyó qf anif? ¿T anjsjx f zkfsfwyj js qfx hwzjqjx mfefñfx ij yz htsinhnós,
t f ajw ijxij jxf fqyzwf, htrt tywt ijxunfifit Sjwt, jq nshjsint ij xz
fgwfxfif Wtrf, t f unxfw, fwwtlfsyj, jxyj ijxinhmfit hfiáajw, htrt qf
nslwfyf mnof fq ij xz ufiwj Yfwvznst? Instx uwjxyt f qt vzj anjsjx, t vzé
jx fvzjqqt ij vzj ráx lzxyfx; vzj, utw xfgjw dt vzj qtx ujsxfrnjsytx ij
Lwnxóxytrt ofráx ijofwts ij tgjijhjwyj js anif, mfwé vzj, fzs éq rzjwyt, yj
tgjijehfs qtx ij ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj xj qqfrfwts xzx frnltx.

-St ajslt, ¡tm Frgwtxnt!, f snslzsf htxf ij qfx vzj mfx inhmt -wjxutsinó
Rfwhjqf-, xnst f atqajw utw rí rnxrf, d f ifw f jsyjsijw hzás kzjwf ij
wfeós afs ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj ij xzx ujsfx d ij qf rzjwyj ij Lwnxóxytrt rj
hzqufs; d fxí, wzjlt f ytitx qtx vzj fvzí jxyánx rj jxyénx fyjsytx, vzj st
xjwá rjsjxyjw rzhmt ynjrut sn lfxyfw rzhmfx ufqfgwfx ufwf ujwxzfinw zsf
ajwifi f qtx inxhwjytx.

»Míetrj jq hnjqt, xjlús atxtywtx ijhíx, mjwrtxf, d ij yfq rfsjwf vzj, xns
xjw utijwtxtx f tywf htxf, f vzj rj frénx tx rzjaj rn mjwrtxzwf; d, utw jq
frtw vzj rj rtxywánx, ijhíx, d fzs vzjwénx, vzj jxyé dt tgqnlfif f frfwtx.
Dt htsteht, hts jq sfyzwfq jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj Intx rj mf ifit, vzj ytit qt
mjwrtxt jx frfgqj; rfx st fqhfset vzj, utw wfeós ij xjw frfit, jxyé
tgqnlfit qt vzj jx frfit utw mjwrtxt f frfw f vznjs qj frf. D ráx, vzj
utiwíf fhtsyjhjw vzj jq frfitw ij qt mjwrtxt kzjxj kjt, d, xnjsit qt kjt
inlst ij xjw fgtwwjhnit, hfj rzd rfq jq ijhnw ''Vznéwtyj utw mjwrtxf; mfxrj
ij frfw fzsvzj xjf kjt''. Ujwt, uzjxyt hfxt vzj htwwfs nlzfqrjsyj qfx
mjwrtxzwfx, st utw jxt mfs ij htwwjw nlzfqjx qtx ijxjtx, vzj st ytifx
mjwrtxzwfx jsfrtwfs; vzj fqlzsfx fqjlwfs qf anxyf d st wnsijs qf atqzsyfi;
vzj xn ytifx qfx gjqqjefx jsfrtwfxjs d wnsinjxjs, xjwíf zs fsifw qfx
atqzsyfijx htskzxfx d ijxhfrnsfifx, xns xfgjw js hzáq mfgífs ij ufwfw;
utwvzj, xnjsit nsknsnytx qtx xzojytx mjwrtxtx, nsknsnytx mfgífs ij xjw qtx
ijxjtx. D, xjlús dt mj tíit ijhnw, jq ajwifijwt frtw st xj inanij, d mf ij
xjw atqzsyfwnt, d st ktwetxt. Xnjsit jxyt fxí, htrt dt hwjt vzj qt jx, ¿utw
vzé vzjwénx vzj wnsif rn atqzsyfi utw kzjwef, tgqnlfif st ráx ij vzj ijhíx
vzj rj vzjwénx gnjs? Xn st, ijhnirj: xn htrt jq hnjqt rj mnet mjwrtxf rj
mnhnjwf kjf, ¿kzjwf ozxyt vzj rj vzjofwf ij atxtywtx utwvzj st rj frágfijx?
Hzfsyt ráx, vzj mfgénx ij htsxnijwfw vzj dt st jxhtlí qf mjwrtxzwf vzj
yjslt; vzj, yfq hzfq jx, jq hnjqt rj qf int ij lwfhnf, xns dt ujinqqf sn
jxhtljqqf. D, fxí htrt qf aígtwf st rjwjhj xjw hzqufif utw qf utsetñf vzj
ynjsj, uzjxyt vzj hts jqqf rfyf, utw mfgéwxjqf ifit sfyzwfqjef, yfrutht dt
rjwjeht xjw wjuwjmjsinif utw xjw mjwrtxf; vzj qf mjwrtxzwf js qf rzojw
mtsjxyf jx htrt jq kzjlt fufwyfit t htrt qf jxufif flzif, vzj sn éq vzjrf
sn jqqf htwyf f vznjs f jqqtx st xj fhjwhf. Qf mtswf d qfx anwyzijx xts
fitwstx ijq fqrf, xns qfx hzfqjx jq hzjwut, fzsvzj qt xjf, st ijgj ij
ufwjhjw mjwrtxt. Uzjx xn qf mtsjxynifi jx zsf ij qfx anwyzijx vzj fq hzjwut
d fq fqrf ráx fitwsfs d mjwrtxjfs, ¿utw vzé qf mf ij ujwijw qf vzj jx frfif
utw mjwrtxf, utw htwwjxutsijw f qf nsyjshnós ij fvzjq vzj, utw xóqt xz
lzxyt, hts ytifx xzx kzjwefx j nsizxywnfx uwthzwf vzj qf unjwif?

»Dt sfhí qngwj, d ufwf utijw ananw qngwj jxhtlí qf xtqjifi ij qtx hfrutx.
Qtx áwgtqjx ijxyfx rtsyfñfx xts rn htrufñíf, qfx hqfwfx flzfx ijxytx
fwwtdtx rnx jxujotx; hts qtx áwgtqjx d hts qfx flzfx htrzsnht rnx
ujsxfrnjsytx d mjwrtxzwf. Kzjlt xtd fufwyfit d jxufif uzjxyf qjotx. F qtx
vzj mj jsfrtwfit hts qf anxyf mj ijxjslfñfit hts qfx ufqfgwfx. D xn qtx
ijxjtx xj xzxyjsyfs hts jxujwfsefx, st mfgnjsit dt ifit fqlzsf f Lwnxóxytrt
sn f tywt fqlzst, jq kns ij snslzst ijqqtx gnjs xj uzjij ijhnw vzj fsyjx qj
rfyó xz utwkíf vzj rn hwzjqifi. D xn xj rj mfhj hfwlt vzj jwfs mtsjxytx xzx
ujsxfrnjsytx, d vzj utw jxyt jxyfgf tgqnlfif f htwwjxutsijw f jqqtx, inlt
vzj, hzfsit js jxj rnxrt qzlfw itsij fmtwf xj hfaf xz xjuzqyzwf rj
ijxhzgwnó qf gtsifi ij xz nsyjshnós, qj inoj dt vzj qf ríf jwf ananw js
ujwujyzf xtqjifi, d ij vzj xtqf qf ynjwwf ltefxj jq kwzyt ij rn
wjhtlnrnjsyt d qtx ijxutotx ij rn mjwrtxzwf; d xn éq, hts ytit jxyj
ijxjslfñt, vznxt utwknfw htsywf qf jxujwfsef d sfajlfw htsywf jq anjsyt,
¿vzé rzhmt vzj xj fsjlfxj js qf rnyfi ijq ltqkt ij xz ijxfynst? Xn dt qj
jsywjyzanjwf, kzjwf kfqxf; xn qj htsyjsyfwf, mnhnjwf htsywf rn rjotw
nsyjshnós d uwtxzuzjxyt. Utwknó ijxjslfñfit, ijxjxujwó xns xjw fgtwwjhnit:
¡rnwfi fmtwf xn xjwá wfeós vzj ij xz ujsf xj rj ié f rí qf hzquf! Vzéojxj
jq jslfñfit, ijxjxuéwjxj fvzjq f vznjs qj kfqyfwts qfx uwtrjynifx
jxujwfsefx, htskíjxj jq vzj dt qqfrfwj, zkásjxj jq vzj dt firnynjwj; ujwt
st rj qqfrj hwzjq sn mtrnhnif fvzjq f vznjs dt st uwtrjyt, jslfñt, qqfrt sn
firnyt.

»Jq hnjqt fús mfxyf fmtwf st mf vzjwnit vzj dt frj utw ijxynst, d jq ujsxfw
vzj yjslt ij frfw utw jqjhhnós jx jxhzxfit. Jxyj ljsjwfq ijxjslfñt xnwaf f
hfif zst ij qtx vzj rj xtqnhnyfs ij xz ufwynhzqfw uwtajhmt; d jsynésifxj,
ij fvzí fijqfsyj, vzj xn fqlzst utw rí rzwnjwj, st rzjwj ij hjqtxt sn
ijxinhmfit, utwvzj vznjs f sfinj vznjwj, f snslzst ijgj ifw hjqtx; vzj qtx
ijxjslfñtx st xj mfs ij ytrfw js hzjsyf ij ijxijsjx. Jq vzj rj qqfrf knjwf
d gfxnqnxht, iéojrj htrt htxf ujwozinhnfq d rfqf; jq vzj rj qqfrf nslwfyf,
st rj xnwaf; jq vzj ijxhtsthnif, st rj htstehf; vznjs hwzjq, st rj xnlf;
vzj jxyf knjwf, jxyj gfxnqnxht, jxyf nslwfyf, jxyf hwzjq d jxyf
ijxhtsthnif, sn qtx gzxhfwá, xjwanwá, htsthjwá sn xjlznwá js snslzsf
rfsjwf. Vzj xn f Lwnxóxytrt rfyó xz nrufhnjshnf d fwwtofit ijxjt, ¿utw vzé
xj mf ij hzqufw rn mtsjxyt uwthjijw d wjhfyt? Xn dt htsxjwat rn qnrunjef
hts qf htrufñíf ij qtx áwgtqjx, ¿utw vzé mf ij vzjwjw vzj qf unjwif jq vzj
vznjwj vzj qf yjslf hts qtx mtrgwjx? Dt, htrt xfgénx, yjslt wnvzjefx
uwtunfx d st htinhnt qfx fojsfx; yjslt qngwj htsinhnós d st lzxyt ij
xzojyfwrj: sn vznjwt sn fgtwwjeht f sfinj. St jslfñt f éxyj sn xtqnhnyt
fvzéq, sn gzwqt hts zst sn rj jsywjyjslt hts jq tywt. Qf htsajwxfhnós
mtsjxyf ij qfx eflfqfx ijxyfx fqijfx d jq hznifit ij rnx hfgwfx rj
jsywjynjsj. Ynjsjs rnx ijxjtx utw yéwrnst jxyfx rtsyfñfx, d xn ij fvzí
xfqjs, jx f htsyjruqfw qf mjwrtxzwf ijq hnjqt, ufxtx hts vzj hfrnsf jq fqrf
f xz rtwfif uwnrjwf.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, xns vzjwjw tíw wjxuzjxyf fqlzsf, atqanó qfx jxufqifx d
xj jsywó utw qt ráx hjwwfit ij zs rtsyj vzj fqqí hjwhf jxyfgf, ijofsit
firnwfitx, yfsyt ij xz inxhwjhnós htrt ij xz mjwrtxzwf, f ytitx qtx vzj
fqqí jxyfgfs. D fqlzstx injwts rzjxywfx -ij fvzjqqtx vzj ij qf utijwtxf
kqjhmf ij qtx wfdtx ij xzx gjqqtx totx jxyfgfs mjwnitx- ij vzjwjwqf xjlznw,
xns fuwtajhmfwxj ijq rfsnknjxyt ijxjslfñt vzj mfgífs tíit. Qt hzfq anxyt
utw its Vznotyj, ufwjhnésitqj vzj fqqí ajsíf gnjs zxfw ij xz hfgfqqjwíf,
xthtwwnjsit f qfx itshjqqfx rjsjxyjwtxfx, uzjxyf qf rfst js jq uzñt ij xz
jxufif, js fqyfx j nsyjqnlngqjx athjx, inot:

-Snslzsf ujwxtsf, ij hzfqvznjw jxyfit d htsinhnós vzj xjf, xj fywjaf f
xjlznw f qf mjwrtxf Rfwhjqf, xt ujsf ij hfjw js qf kzwntxf nsinlsfhnós ríf.
Jqqf mf rtxywfit hts hqfwfx d xzknhnjsyjx wfetsjx qf uthf t snslzsf hzquf
vzj mf yjsnit js qf rzjwyj ij Lwnxóxytrt, d hzás fojsf anaj ij htsijxhjsijw
hts qtx ijxjtx ij snslzst ij xzx frfsyjx, f hzdf hfzxf jx ozxyt vzj, js
qzlfw ij xjw xjlznif d ujwxjlznif, xjf mtswfif d jxynrfif ij ytitx qtx
gzjstx ijq rzsit, uzjx rzjxywf vzj js éq jqqf jx xtqf qf vzj hts yfs
mtsjxyf nsyjshnós anaj.

T df vzj kzjxj utw qfx frjsfefx ij its Vznotyj, t utwvzj Frgwtxnt qjx inot
vzj htshqzdjxjs hts qt vzj f xz gzjs frnlt ijgífs, snslzst ij qtx ufxytwjx
xj rtanó sn fufwyó ij fqqí mfxyf vzj, fhfgfif qf xjuzqyzwf d fgwfxfitx qtx
ufujqjx ij Lwnxóxytrt, uzxnjwts xz hzjwut js jqqf, st xns rzhmfx qálwnrfx
ij qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx. Hjwwfwts qf xjuzqyzwf hts zsf lwzjxf ujñf, js yfsyt
vzj xj fhfgfgf zsf qtxf vzj, xjlús Frgwtxnt inot, ujsxfgf rfsifw mfhjw, hts
zs junyfknt vzj mfgíf ij ijhnw ijxyf rfsjwf:

   Dfhj fvzí ij zs frfitw
   jq ríxjwt hzjwut mjqfit,
   vzj kzj ufxytw ij lfsfit,
   ujwinit utw ijxfrtw.
   Rzwnó f rfstx ijq wnltw
   ij zsf jxvznaf mjwrtxf nslwfyf,
   hts vznjs xz nrujwnt inqfyf
   qf ynwfsíf ij xz frtw.

Qzjlt jxufwhnjwts utw hnrf ij qf xjuzqyzwf rzhmfx kqtwjx d wfrtx, d, ifsit
ytitx jq uéxfrj f xz frnlt Frgwtxnt, xj ijxuninjwts iéq. Qt rjxrt mnhnjwts
Anafqit d xz htrufñjwt, d its Vznotyj xj ijxuninó ij xzx mzéxujijx d ij qtx
hfrnsfsyjx, qtx hzfqjx qj wtlfwts xj ansnjxj hts jqqtx f Xjanqqf, utw xjw
qzlfw yfs fhtrtifit f mfqqfw fajsyzwfx, vzj js hfif hfqqj d ywfx hfif
jxvznsf xj tkwjhjs ráx vzj js tywt fqlzst. Its Vznotyj qjx flwfijhnó jq
fanxt d jq ásnrt vzj rtxywfgfs ij mfhjwqj rjwhji, d inot vzj utw jsytshjx
st vzjwíf sn ijgíf nw f Xjanqqf, mfxyf vzj mzgnjxj ijxutofit ytifx fvzjqqfx
xnjwwfx ij qfiwtsjx rfqfsiwnsjx, ij vznjs jwf kfrf vzj ytifx jxyfgfs
qqjsfx. Anjsit xz gzjsf ijyjwrnsfhnós, st vznxnjwts qtx hfrnsfsyjx
nrutwyzsfwqj ráx, xnst, ytwsásitxj f ijxujinw ij szjat, qj ijofwts d
uwtxnlznjwts xz hfrnst, js jq hzfq st qjx kfqyó ij vzé ywfyfw, fxí ij qf
mnxytwnf ij Rfwhjqf d Lwnxóxytrt htrt ij qfx qthzwfx ij its Vznotyj. Jq
hzfq ijyjwrnsó ij nw f gzxhfw f qf ufxytwf Rfwhjqf d tkwjhjwqj ytit qt vzj
éq utiíf js xz xjwanhnt. Rfx st qj fanst htrt éq ujsxfgf, xjlús xj hzjsyf
js jq inxhzwxt ijxyf ajwifijwf mnxytwnf, ifsit fvzí kns qf xjlzsif ufwyj.

Yjwhjwf ufwyj ijq nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf





Hfuíyzqt CA. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf ijxlwfhnfif fajsyzwf vzj xj ytuó its
Vznotyj js ytufw hts zstx ijxfqrfitx dfslüjxjx


Hzjsyf jq xfgnt Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn vzj, fxí htrt its Vznotyj xj ijxuninó
ij xzx mzéxujijx d ij ytitx qtx vzj xj mfqqfwts fq jsynjwwt ijq ufxytw
Lwnxóxytrt, éq d xz jxhzijwt xj jsywfwts utw jq rjxrt gtxvzj itsij anjwts
vzj xj mfgíf jsywfit qf ufxytwf Rfwhjqf; d, mfgnjsit fsifit ráx ij itx
mtwfx utw éq, gzxhásitqf utw ytifx ufwyjx xns utijw mfqqfwqf, ansnjwts f
ufwfw f zs uwfit qqjst ij kwjxhf djwgf, ozsyt ijq hzfq htwwíf zs fwwtdt
fufhngqj d kwjxht; yfsyt, vzj htsanió d ktweó f ufxfw fqqí qfx mtwfx ij qf
xnjxyf, vzj wnlzwtxfrjsyj htrjsefgf df f jsywfw.

Fujáwtsxj its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, d, ijofsit fq ozrjsyt d f Wthnsfsyj f xzx
fshmzwfx ufhjw ij qf rzhmf djwgf vzj fqqí mfgíf, injwts xfht f qfx
fqktwofx, d, xns hjwnrtsnf fqlzsf, js gzjsf ufe d htrufñíf, frt d rtet
htrnjwts qt vzj js jqqfx mfqqfwts.

St xj mfgíf hzwfit Xfshmt ij jhmfw xzjqyfx f Wthnsfsyj, xjlzwt ij vzj qj
htsthíf utw yfs rfsxt d yfs utht wnotxt vzj ytifx qfx djlzfx ij qf ijmjxf
ij Hówitgf st qj mnhnjwfs ytrfw rfq xnsnjxywt. Twijsó, uzjx, qf xzjwyj, d
jq infgqt, vzj st ytifx ajhjx izjwrj, vzj fsifgfs utw fvzjq afqqj ufhnjsit
zsf rfsfif ij mfhfx lfqnhnfsfx ij zstx fwwnjwtx lfqqjltx, ij qtx hzfqjx jx
htxyzrgwj xjxyjfw hts xz wjhzf js qzlfwjx d xnyntx ij djwgf d flzf; d fvzjq
itsij fhjwyó f mfqqfwxj its Vznotyj jwf rzd f uwtuóxnyt ij qtx lfqqjltx.
Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj f Wthnsfsyj qj anst js ijxjt ij wjkthnqfwxj hts qfx
xjñtwfx kfhfx; d xfqnjsit, fxí htrt qfx tqnó, ij xz sfyzwfq ufxt d
htxyzrgwj, xns ujinw qnhjshnf f xz izjñt, ytró zs ywtynht fqlt unhfinqqt
d xj kzj f htrzsnhfw xz sjhjxnifi hts jqqfx. Rfx jqqfx, vzj, f qt vzj
ufwjhnó, ijgífs ij yjsjw ráx lfsf ij ufhjw vzj ij áq, wjhngnéwtsqj hts qfx
mjwwfizwfx d hts qtx injsyjx, ij yfq rfsjwf vzj, f utht jxufhnt, xj qj
wtrunjwts qfx hnshmfx d vzjió, xns xnqqf, js ujqtyf. Ujwt qt vzj éq ijgnó
ráx ij xjsynw kzj vzj, anjsit qtx fwwnjwtx qf kzjwef vzj f xzx djlzfx xj
qjx mfhíf, fhzinjwts hts jxyfhfx, d yfsytx ufqtx qj injwts vzj qj
ijwwngfwts rfqufwfit js jq xzjqt.

Df js jxyt its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, vzj qf ufqnef ij Wthnsfsyj mfgífs anxyt,
qqjlfgfs nofijfsit; d inot its Vznotyj f Xfshmt:

-F qt vzj dt ajt, frnlt Xfshmt, éxytx st xts hfgfqqjwtx, xnst ljsyj xtje d
ij gfof wfqjf. Iíltqt utwvzj gnjs rj uzjijx fdzifw f ytrfw qf ijgnif
ajslfsef ijq flwfant vzj ijqfsyj ij szjxywtx totx xj qj mf mjhmt f
Wthnsfsyj.

-¿Vzé infgqtx ij ajslfsef mjrtx ij ytrfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn éxytx xts
ráx ij ajnsyj d stxtywtx st ráx ij itx, d fzs, vzneá, stxtywtx xnst zst d
rjint?

-Dt afqlt utw hnjsyt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

D, xns mfhjw ráx inxhzwxtx, jhmó rfst f xz jxufif d fwwjrjynó f qtx
lfqqjltx, d qt rjxrt mnet Xfshmt Ufsef, nshnyfit d rtanit ijq jojruqt ij xz
frt. D, f qfx uwnrjwfx, int its Vznotyj zsf hzhmnqqfif f zst, vzj qj fgwnó
zs xfdt ij hzjwt ij vzj ajsíf ajxynit, hts lwfs ufwyj ij qf jxufqif.
Qtx lfqqjltx, vzj xj anjwts rfqywfyfw ij fvzjqqtx itx mtrgwjx xtqtx, xnjsit
jqqtx yfsytx, fhzinjwts f xzx jxyfhfx, d, htlnjsit f qtx itx js rjint,
htrjsefwts f rjszijfw xtgwj jqqtx hts lwfsij fmísht d ajmjrjshnf. Ajwifi jx
vzj fq xjlzsit ytvzj injwts hts Xfshmt js jq xzjqt, d qt rjxrt qj fanst f
its Vznotyj, xns vzj qj afqnjxj xz ijxywjef d gzjs ásnrt; d vznxt xz
ajsyzwf vzj ansnjxj f hfjw f qtx unjx ij Wthnsfsyj, vzj fús st xj mfgíf
qjafsyfit; itsij xj jhmf ij ajw qf kzwnf hts vzj rfhmfhfs jxyfhfx uzjxyfx
js rfstx wúxynhfx d jstofifx.

Anjsit, uzjx, qtx lfqqjltx jq rfq wjhfit vzj mfgífs mjhmt, hts qf rfdtw
uwjxyjef vzj uzinjwts, hfwlfwts xz wjhzf d xnlznjwts xz hfrnst, ijofsit f
qtx itx fajsyzwjwtx ij rfqf ywfef d ij ujtw yfqfsyj.

Jq uwnrjwt vzj xj wjxnsynó kzj Xfshmt Ufsef; d, mfqqásitxj ozsyt f xz
xjñtw, hts ate jskjwrf d qfxynrfif, inot:

-¡Xjñtw its Vznotyj! ¡Fm, xjñtw its Vznotyj!

-¿Vzé vznjwjx, Xfshmt mjwrfst? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj hts jq rjxrt ytst
fkjrnsfit d itqnjsyj vzj Xfshmt.

-Vzjwwíf, xn kzjxj utxngqj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-, vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj
injxj itx ywfltx ij fvzjqqf gjgnif ijq kjt Gqfx, xn jx vzj qf ynjsj azjxywf
rjwhji fmí f rfst. Vzneá xjwá ij uwtajhmt ufwf qtx vzjgwfsyfrnjsytx ij
mzjxtx htrt qt jx ufwf qfx kjwnifx.

-Uzjx, f yjsjwqf dt fvzí, ijxlwfhnfit dt, ¿vzé stx kfqyfgf? -wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj-. Rfx dt yj ozwt, Xfshmt Ufsef, f kj ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj
fsyjx vzj ufxjs itx iífx, xn qf ktwyzsf st twijsf tywf htxf, qf yjslt ij
yjsjw js rn utijw, t rfq rj mfs ij fsifw qfx rfstx.

-Uzjx, ¿js hzásytx qj ufwjhj f azjxywf rjwhji vzj utiwjrtx rtajw qtx unjx?
-wjuqnhó Xfshmt Ufsef.

-Ij rí xé ijhnw -inot jq rtqnit hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj- vzj st xfgwé utsjw
yéwrnst f jxtx iífx. Rfx dt rj yjslt qf hzquf ij ytit, vzj st mfgíf ij
utsjw rfst f qf jxufif htsywf mtrgwjx vzj st kzjxjs fwrfitx hfgfqqjwtx htrt
dt; d fxí, hwjt vzj, js ujsf ij mfgjw ufxfit qfx qjdjx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, mf
ujwrnynit jq intx ij qfx gfyfqqfx vzj xj rj injxj jxyj hfxynlt. Utw qt
hzfq, Xfshmt Ufsef, htsanjsj vzj jxyéx fiajwynit js jxyt vzj fmtwf yj inwé,
utwvzj nrutwyf rzhmt f qf xfqzi ij jsywfrgtx; d jx vzj, hzfsit ajfx vzj
xjrjofsyj hfsfqqf stx mfhj fqlús flwfant, st flzfwijx f vzj dt utslf rfst
fq jxufif ufwf jqqtx, utwvzj st qt mfwé js snslzsf rfsjwf, xnst uts yú rfst
f yz jxufif d hfxyílfqtx rzd f yz xfgtw; vzj xn js xz fdzif d ijkjsxf
fhzinjwjs hfgfqqjwtx, dt yj xfgwé ijkjsijw d tkjsijqqtx hts ytit rn utijw;
vzj df mfgwáx anxyt utw rnq xjñfqjx d jcujwnjshnfx mfxyf fiósij xj jxynjsij
jq afqtw ij jxyj rn kzjwyj gwfet.

Yfq vzjió ij fwwtlfsyj jq utgwj xjñtw hts jq ajshnrnjsyt ijq afqnjsyj
anehfíst. Rfx st qj ufwjhnó yfs gnjs f Xfshmt Ufsef jq fanxt ij xz frt vzj
ijofxj ij wjxutsijw, inhnjsit:

-Xjñtw, dt xtd mtrgwj ufhíknht, rfsxt, xtxjlfit, d xé inxnrnqfw hzfqvznjwf
nsozwnf, utwvzj yjslt rzojw d mnotx vzj xzxyjsyfw d hwnfw. Fxí vzj, xéfqj f
azjxywf rjwhji yfrgnés fanxt, uzjx st uzjij xjw rfsifyt, vzj js snslzsf
rfsjwf utsiwé rfst f qf jxufif, sn htsywf anqqfst sn htsywf hfgfqqjwt; d
vzj, ijxij fvzí ufwf ijqfsyj ij Intx, ujwitst hzfsytx flwfantx rj mfs mjhmt
d mfs ij mfhjw: twf rj qtx mfdf mjhmt, t mflf t mfdf ij mfhjw, ujwxtsf fqyf
t gfof, wnht t utgwj, mnifqlt t ujhmjwt, xns jhjuyfw jxyfit sn htsinhnós
fqlzsf.

Qt hzfq tíit utw xz frt, qj wjxutsinó:

-Vznxnjwf yjsjw fqnjsyt ufwf utijw mfgqfw zs utht ijxhfsxfit, d vzj jq
itqtw vzj yjslt js jxyf htxynqqf xj fuqfhfwf yfsyt hzfsyt, ufwf ifwyj f
jsyjsijw, Ufsef, js jq jwwtw js vzj jxyáx. Ajs fhá, ujhfitw; xn jq anjsyt
ij qf ktwyzsf, mfxyf fmtwf yfs htsywfwnt, js szjxywt kfatw xj azjqaj,
qqjaásitstx qfx ajqfx ijq ijxjt ufwf vzj xjlzwfrjsyj d xns htsywfxyj fqlzst
ytrjrtx uzjwyt js fqlzsf ij qfx ísxzqfx vzj yj yjslt uwtrjynif, ¿vzé xjwíf
ij yn xn, lfsásitqf dt, yj mnhnjxj xjñtw ijqqf? Uzjx ¿qt ajsiwáx f
nrutxngnqnyfw utw st xjw hfgfqqjwt, sn vzjwjwqt xjw, sn yjsjw afqtw sn
nsyjshnós ij ajslfw yzx nsozwnfx d ijkjsijw yz xjñtwít? Utwvzj mfx ij xfgjw
vzj js qtx wjnstx d uwtanshnfx szjafrjsyj htsvznxyfitx szshf jxyás yfs
vznjytx qtx ásnrtx ij xzx sfyzwfqjx, sn yfs ij ufwyj ijq szjat xjñtw vzj st
xj yjslfs yjrtw ij vzj mfs ij mfhjw fqlzsf stajifi ufwf fqyjwfw ij szjat
qfx htxfx, d atqajw, htrt inhjs, f uwtgfw ajsyzwf; d fxí, jx rjsjxyjw vzj
jq szjat utxjxtw yjslf jsyjsinrnjsyt ufwf xfgjwxj ltgjwsfw, d afqtw ufwf
tkjsijw d ijkjsijwxj js hzfqvznjwf fhtsyjhnrnjsyt.

-Js jxyj vzj fmtwf stx mf fhtsyjhnit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vznxnjwf dt yjsjw
jxj jsyjsinrnjsyt d jxj afqtw vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj; rfx dt qj ozwt, f kj
ij utgwj mtrgwj, vzj ráx jxytd ufwf gnerfx vzj ufwf uqáynhfx. Rnwj azjxywf
rjwhji xn xj uzjij qjafsyfw, d fdzifwjrtx f Wthnsfsyj, fzsvzj st qt rjwjhj,
utwvzj éq kzj qf hfzxf uwnshnufq ij ytit jxyj rtqnrnjsyt. Ofráx yfq hwjí ij
Wthnsfsyj, vzj qj yjsíf utw ujwxtsf hfxyf d yfs ufhíknhf htrt dt. Js kns,
gnjs inhjs vzj jx rjsjxyjw rzhmt ynjrut ufwf ajsnw f htsthjw qfx ujwxtsfx,
d vzj st mfd htxf xjlzwf js jxyf anif. ¿Vznés inojwf vzj ywfx ij fvzjqqfx
yfs lwfsijx hzhmnqqfifx htrt azjxywf rjwhji int f fvzjq ijxinhmfit
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, mfgíf ij ajsnw, utw qf utxyf d js xjlznrnjsyt xzdt, jxyf
yfs lwfsij yjrujxyfi ij ufqtx vzj mf ijxhfwlfit xtgwj szjxywfx jxufqifx?
-Fzs qfx yzdfx, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, ijgjs ij jxyfw mjhmfx f
xjrjofsyjx szgqfitx; ujwt qfx rífx, hwnfifx jsywj xnsfgfkfx d mtqfsifx,
hqfwt jxyá vzj xjsynwás ráx jq itqtw ijxyf ijxlwfhnf. D xn st kzjxj utwvzj
nrflnst..., ¿vzé inlt nrflnst?, xé rzd hnjwyt, vzj ytifx jxyfx
nshtrtinifijx xts rzd fsjofx fq jojwhnhnt ij qfx fwrfx, fvzí rj ijofwíf
rtwnw ij uzwt jstot.

F jxyt wjuqnhó jq jxhzijwt:

-Xjñtw, df vzj jxyfx ijxlwfhnfx xts ij qf htxjhmf ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, iílfrj
azjxywf rjwhji xn xzhjijs rzd f rjszit, t xn ynjsjs xzx ynjrutx qnrnyfitx
js vzj fhfjhjs; utwvzj rj ufwjhj f rí vzj f itx htxjhmfx vzjifwjrtx
nsúynqjx ufwf qf yjwhjwf, xn Intx, utw xz nsknsnyf rnxjwnhtwinf, st stx
xthtwwj.

-Xágjyj, frnlt Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj qf anif ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx jxyá xzojyf f rnq ujqnlwtx d ijxajsyzwfx; d, sn ráx sn
rjstx, jxyá js utyjshnf uwtunshzf ij xjw qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx wjdjx d
jrujwfitwjx, htrt qt mf rtxywfit qf jcujwnjshnf js rzhmtx d inajwxtx
hfgfqqjwtx, ij hzdfx mnxytwnfx dt yjslt jsyjwf stynhnf. D uzinéwfyj htsyfw
fltwf, xn jq itqtw rj injwf qzlfw, ij fqlzstx vzj, xóqt utw jq afqtw ij xz
gwfet, mfs xzgnit f qtx fqytx lwfitx vzj mj htsyfit; d jxytx rjxrtx xj
anjwts fsyjx d ijxuzéx js inajwxfx hfqfrnifijx d rnxjwnfx. Utwvzj jq
afqjwtxt Frfiíx ij Lfzqf xj ant js utijw ij xz rtwyfq jsjrnlt Fwhfqázx jq
jshfsyfitw, ij vznjs xj ynjsj utw fajwnlzfit vzj qj int, yjsnésitqj
uwjxt, ráx ij ithnjsytx fetyjx hts qfx wnjsifx ij xz hfgfqqt, fyfit f zsf
htqzsf ij zs ufynt. D fzs mfd zs fzytw xjhwjyt, d ij st utht hwéinyt, vzj
inhj vzj, mfgnjsit htlnit fq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Kjgt hts zsf hnjwyf ywfruf vzj
xj qj mzsinó ijgfot ij qtx unjx, js zs hnjwyt hfxynqqt, d fq hfjw, xj mfqqó
js zsf mtsif xnrf ijgfot ij ynjwwf, fyfit ij unjx d rfstx, d fqqí qj
jhmfwts zsf ijxyfx vzj qqfrfs rjqjhnsfx, ij flzf ij snjaj d fwjsf, ij qt
vzj qqjló rzd fq hfgt; d xn st kzjwf xthtwwnit js fvzjqqf lwfs hznyf ij zs
xfgnt lwfsij frnlt xzdt, qt ufxfwf rzd rfq jq utgwj hfgfqqjwt. Fsxí vzj,
gnjs uzjit dt ufxfw jsywj yfsyf gzjsf ljsyj; vzj rfdtwjx fkwjsyfx xts qfx
vzj éxytx ufxfwts, vzj st qfx vzj fmtwf stxtywtx ufxfrtx. Utwvzj vznjwt
mfhjwyj xfgnitw, Xfshmt, vzj st fkwjsyfs qfx mjwnifx vzj xj ifs hts qtx
nsxywzrjsytx vzj fhfxt xj mfqqfs js qfx rfstx; d jxyt jxyá js qf qjd ijq
izjqt, jxhwnyt utw ufqfgwfx jcuwjxfx: vzj xn jq efufyjwt if f tywt hts qf
mtwrf vzj ynjsj js qf rfst, uzjxyt vzj ajwifijwfrjsyj jx ij ufqt, st utw
jxt xj inwá vzj vzjif fufqjfit fvzjq f vznjs int hts jqqf. Inlt jxyt utwvzj
st unjsxjx vzj, uzjxyt vzj vzjifrtx ijxyf ujsijshnf rtqnitx, vzjifrtx
fkwjsyfitx; utwvzj qfx fwrfx vzj fvzjqqtx mtrgwjx ywfífs, hts vzj stx
rfhmfhfwts, st jwfs tywfx vzj xzx jxyfhfx, d snslzst ijqqtx, f qt vzj xj rj
fhzjwif, yjsíf jxytvzj, jxufif sn uzñfq.

-St rj injwts f rí qzlfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- f vzj rnwfxj js yfsyt; utwvzj,
fujsfx uzxj rfst f rn ynetsf, hzfsit rj xfsynlzfwts qtx mtrgwtx hts xzx
unstx, ij rfsjwf vzj rj vznyfwts qf anxyf ij qtx totx d qf kzjwef ij qtx
unjx, ifsit htsrnlt fitsij fmtwf dflt, d fitsij st rj if ujsf fqlzsf jq
ujsxfw xn kzj fkwjsyf t st qt ij qtx jxyfhfetx, htrt rj qf if jq itqtw ij
qtx ltqujx, vzj rj mfs ij vzjifw yfs nruwjxtx js qf rjrtwnf htrt js qfx
jxufqifx.

-Hts ytit jxt, yj mflt xfgjw, mjwrfst Ufsef -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj st
mfd rjrtwnf f vznjs jq ynjrut st fhfgj, sn itqtw vzj rzjwyj st qj htsxzrf.

-Uzjx, ¿vzé rfdtw ijxinhmf uzjij xjw -wjuqnhó Ufsef- ij fvzjqqf vzj flzfwif
fq ynjrut vzj qf htsxzrf d f qf rzjwyj vzj qf fhfgj? Xn jxyf szjxywf
ijxlwfhnf kzjwf ij fvzjqqfx vzj hts zs ufw ij gnerfx xj hzwfs, fzs st yfs
rfqt; ujwt atd anjsit vzj st mfs ij gfxyfw ytitx qtx jruqfxytx ij zs
mtxunyfq ufwf utsjwqfx js gzjs yéwrnst xnvznjwf.

-Iéofyj ijxt d xfhf kzjwefx ij kqfvzjef, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-,
vzj fxí mfwé dt, d ajfrtx hórt jxyá Wthnsfsyj; vzj, f qt vzj rj ufwjhj, st
qj mf hfgnit fq utgwj qf rjstw ufwyj ijxyf ijxlwfhnf.

-St mfd ij vzé rfwfanqqfwxj ijxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnjsit éq yfs gzjs
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; ij qt vzj dt rj rfwfanqqt jx ij vzj rn ozrjsyt mfdf
vzjifit qngwj d xns htxyfx itsij stxtywtx xfqnrtx xns htxynqqfx.

-Xnjruwj ijof qf ajsyzwf zsf uzjwyf fgnjwyf js qfx ijxinhmfx, ufwf ifw
wjrjint f jqqfx -inot its Vznotyj-. Iíltqt utwvzj jxf gjxyjezjqf utiwá
xzuqnw fmtwf qf kfqyf ij Wthnsfsyj, qqjaásitrj f rí ijxij fvzí f fqlús
hfxynqqt itsij xjf hzwfit ij rnx kjwnifx. D ráx, vzj st yjsiwé f ijxmtswf
qf yfq hfgfqqjwíf, utwvzj rj fhzjwit mfgjw qjíit vzj fvzjq gzjs anjot
Xnqjst, fdt d ujifltlt ijq fqjlwj intx ij qf wnxf, hzfsit jsywó js qf
hnzifi ij qfx hnjs uzjwyfx ngf, rzd f xz uqfhjw, hfgfqqjwt xtgwj zs rzd
mjwrtxt fxst.

-Ajwifi xjwá vzj éq ijgíf ij nw hfgfqqjwt, htrt azjxywf rjwhji inhj
-wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt mfd lwfsij inkjwjshnf ijq nw hfgfqqjwt fq nw
fywfajxfit htrt htxyfq ij gfxzwf.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Qfx kjwnifx vzj xj wjhngjs js qfx gfyfqqfx, fsyjx ifs mtswf vzj qf vznyfs.
Fxí vzj, Ufsef frnlt, st rj wjuqnvzjx ráx, xnst, htrt df yj mj inhmt,
qjaásyfyj qt rjotw vzj uzinjwjx d utsrj ij qf rfsjwf vzj ráx yj flwfifwj
jshnrf ij yz ozrjsyt, d afrtx ij fvzí fsyjx vzj qf sthmj ajslf d stx xfqyjj
js jxyj ijxutgqfit.

-Uzjx dt mj tíit ijhnw f azjxywf rjwhji -inot Ufsef- vzj jx rzd ij
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx jq itwrnw js qtx uáwfrtx d ijxnjwytx qt ráx ijq fñt, d
vzj qt ynjsjs f rzhmf ajsyzwf.

-Jxt jx -inot its Vznotyj- hzfsit st uzjijs ráx, t hzfsit jxyás jsfrtwfitx;
d jx yfs ajwifi jxyt, vzj mf mfgnit hfgfqqjwt vzj xj mf jxyfit xtgwj zsf
ujñf, fq xtq d f qf xtrgwf, d f qfx nshqjrjshnfx ijq hnjqt, itx fñtx, xns
vzj qt xzunjxj xz xjñtwf. D zst iéxytx kzj Frfiíx, hzfsit, qqfrásitxj
Gjqyjsjgwtx, xj fqtoó js qf Ujñf Utgwj, sn xé xn thmt fñtx t thmt rjxjx,
vzj st jxytd rzd gnjs js qf hzjsyf: gfxyf vzj éq jxyzat fqqí mfhnjsit
ujsnyjshnf, utw st xé vzé xnsxfgtw vzj qj mnet qf xjñtwf Twnfsf. Ujwt
ijojrtx df jxyt, Xfshmt, d fhfgf, fsyjx vzj xzhjif tywf ijxlwfhnf fq
ozrjsyt, htrt f Wthnsfsyj.

-Fzs fmí xjwíf jq infgqt -inot Xfshmt.

D, ijxuninjsit ywjnsyf fdjx, d xjxjsyf xtxunwtx, d hnjsyt d ajnsyj uéxjyjx
d wjsnjltx ij vznjs fqqí qj mfgíf ywfíit, xj qjafsyó, vzjiásitxj fltgnfit
js qf rnyfi ijq hfrnst, htrt fwht yzwvzjxht, xns utijw fhfgfw ij
jsijwjefwxj; d hts ytit jxyj ywfgfot fufwjoó xz fxst, vzj yfrgnés mfgíf
fsifit fqlt ijxywfíit hts qf ijrfxnfif qngjwyfi ij fvzjq iíf. Qjafsyó qzjlt
f Wthnsfsyj, jq hzfq, xn yzanjwf qjslzf hts vzj vzjofwxj, f gzjs xjlzwt vzj
Xfshmt sn xz frt st qj kzjwfs js eflf.

Js wjxtqzhnós, Xfshmt fhtrtió f its Vznotyj xtgwj jq fxst d uzxt ij wjfyf f
Wthnsfsyj; d, qqjafsit fq fxst ij hfgjxywt, xj jshfrnsó, utht ráx f rjstx,
mfhnf itsij qj ufwjhnó vzj utiíf jxyfw jq hfrnst wjfq. D qf xzjwyj, vzj xzx
htxfx ij gnjs js rjotw ngf lznfsit, fús st mzgt fsifit zsf ujvzjñf qjlzf,
hzfsit qj ijufwó jq hfrnst, js jq hzfq ijxhzgwnó zsf ajsyf vzj, f ujxfw
xzdt d lzxyt ij its Vznotyj, mfgíf ij xjw hfxynqqt. Utwknfgf Xfshmt vzj jwf
ajsyf, d xz frt vzj st, xnst hfxynqqt; d yfsyt izwó qf utwkíf, vzj yzanjwts
qzlfw, xns fhfgfwqf, ij qqjlfw f jqqf, js qf hzfq Xfshmt xj jsywó, xns ráx
fajwnlzfhnós, hts ytif xz wjhzf.





Hfuíyzqt CAN. Ij qt vzj qj xzhjinó fq nsljsntxt mnifqlt js qf ajsyf vzj éq
nrflnsfgf xjw hfxynqqt


Jq ajsyjwt, vzj ant f its Vznotyj fywfajxfit js jq fxst, uwjlzsyó f Xfshmt
vzé rfq ywfíf. Xfshmt qj wjxutsinó vzj st jwf sfif, xnst vzj mfgíf ifit zsf
hfíif ij zsf ujñf fgfot, d vzj ajsíf fqlt gwzrfifx qfx htxynqqfx. Yjsíf jq
ajsyjwt utw rzojw f zsf, st ij qf htsinhnós vzj xzjqjs yjsjw qfx ij
xjrjofsyj ywfyt, utwvzj sfyzwfqrjsyj jwf hfwnyfynaf d xj itqíf ij qfx
hfqfrnifijx ij xzx uwóonrtx; d fxí, fhzinó qzjlt f hzwfw f its Vznotyj d
mnet vzj zsf mnof xzdf, itshjqqf, rzhmfhmf d ij rzd gzjs ufwjhjw, qf
fdzifxj f hzwfw f xz mzéxuji. Xjwaíf js qf ajsyf, fxnrjxrt, zsf rtef
fxyzwnfsf, fshmf ij hfwf, qqfsf ij htltyj, ij sfwne wtrf, ijq zs tot yzjwyf
d ijq tywt st rzd xfsf. Ajwifi jx vzj qf lfqqfwiíf ijq hzjwut xzuqíf qfx
ijráx kfqyfx: st yjsíf xnjyj ufqrtx ij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef, d qfx
jxufqifx, vzj fqlús yfsyt qj hfwlfgfs, qf mfhífs rnwfw fq xzjqt ráx ij qt
vzj jqqf vznxnjwf. Jxyf ljsynq rtef, uzjx, fdzió f qf itshjqqf, d qfx itx
mnhnjwts zsf rzd rfqf hfrf f its Vznotyj js zs hfrfwfshmós vzj, js tywtx
ynjrutx, ifgf rfsnknjxytx nsinhntx vzj mfgíf xjwanit ij ufofw rzhmtx fñtx.
Js qf hzfq yfrgnés fqtofgf zs fwwnjwt, vzj yjsíf xz hfrf mjhmf zs utht ráx
fqqá ij qf ij szjxywt its Vznotyj. D, fzsvzj jwf ij qfx jsofqrfx d rfsyfx
ij xzx rfhmtx, mfhíf rzhmf ajsyfof f qf ij its Vznotyj, vzj xóqt htsyjsíf
hzfywt rfq qnxfx yfgqfx, xtgwj itx st rzd nlzfqjx gfshtx, d zs htqhmós vzj
js qt xzynq ufwjhíf htqhmf, qqjst ij gtitvzjx, vzj, f st rtxywfw vzj jwfs
ij qfsf utw fqlzsfx wtyzwfx, fq ynjsyt, js qf izwjef, xjrjofgfs ij
lznofwwt, d itx xágfsfx mjhmfx ij hzjwt ij fifwlf, d zsf kwfefif, hzdtx
mnqtx, xn xj vznxnjwfs htsyfw, st xj ujwinjwf zst xtqt ij qf hzjsyf.
Js jxyf rfqinyf hfrf xj fhtxyó its Vznotyj, d qzjlt qf ajsyjwf d xz mnof qj
jruqfxyfwts ij fwwngf fgfot, fqzrgwásitqjx Rfwnytwsjx, vzj fxí xj qqfrfgf
qf fxyzwnfsf; d, htrt fq gnerfqqj anjxj qf ajsyjwf yfs fhfwijsfqfit f
ufwyjx f its Vznotyj, inot vzj fvzjqqt ráx ufwjhífs ltqujx vzj hfíif.

-St kzjwts ltqujx -inot Xfshmt-, xnst vzj qf ujñf yjsíf rzhmtx unhtx d
ywtujetsjx.

D vzj hfif zst mfgíf mjhmt xz hfwijsfq. D yfrgnés qj inot:

-Mflf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtwf, ij rfsjwf vzj vzjijs fqlzsfx jxytufx, vzj st
kfqyfwá vznjs qfx mfdf rjsjxyjw; vzj yfrgnés rj izjqjs f rí zs utht qtx
qtrtx.

-Ijxf rfsjwf -wjxutsinó qf ajsyjwf-, yfrgnés ijgnxyjx atx ij hfjw.

-St hfí -inot Xfshmt Ufsef-, xnst vzj ijq xtgwjxfqyt vzj ytré ij ajw hfjw f
rn frt, ij yfq rfsjwf rj izjqj f rí jq hzjwut vzj rj ufwjhj vzj rj mfs ifit
rnq ufqtx.

-Gnjs utiwá xjw jxt -inot qf itshjqqf-; vzj f rí rj mf fhtsyjhnit rzhmfx
ajhjx xtñfw vzj hfíf ij zsf ytwwj fgfot d vzj szshf fhfgfgf ij qqjlfw fq
xzjqt, d, hzfsit ijxujwyfgf ijq xzjñt, mfqqfwrj yfs rtqnif d vzjgwfsyfif
htrt xn ajwifijwfrjsyj mzgnjwf hfíit.

-Fmí jxyá jq ytvzj, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-: vzj dt, xns xtñfw
sfif, xnst jxyfsit ráx ijxunjwyt vzj fmtwf jxytd, rj mfqqt hts uthtx rjstx
hfwijsfqjx vzj rn xjñtw its Vznotyj.

-¿Hórt xj qqfrf jxyj hfgfqqjwt? -uwjlzsyó qf fxyzwnfsf Rfwnytwsjx.

-Its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-, d jx hfgfqqjwt
fajsyzwjwt, d ij qtx rjotwjx d ráx kzjwyjx vzj ij qzjsltx ynjrutx fhá xj
mfs anxyt js jq rzsit.

-¿Vzé jx hfgfqqjwt fajsyzwjwt? -wjuqnhó qf rtef.

-¿Yfs szjaf xtnx js jq rzsit vzj st qt xfgénx atx? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt
Ufsef-. Uzjx xfgji, mjwrfsf ríf, vzj hfgfqqjwt fajsyzwjwt jx zsf htxf vzj
js itx ufqfgwfx xj aj fufqjfit d jrujwfitw. Mtd jxyá qf ráx ijxinhmfif
hwnfyzwf ijq rzsit d qf ráx rjsjxyjwtxf, d rfñfsf yjsiwíf itx t ywjx
htwtsfx ij wjnstx vzj ifw f xz jxhzijwt.

-Uzjx, ¿hórt atx, xnésitqt ijxyj yfs gzjs xjñtw -inot qf ajsyjwf-, st
yjsénx, f qt vzj ufwjhj, xnvznjwf fqlús htsifit?

-Fús jx yjruwfst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj st mf xnst zs rjx vzj fsifrtx
gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx, d mfxyf fmtwf st mjrtx ytufit hts snslzsf vzj qt
xjf. D yfq aje mfd vzj xj gzxhf zsf htxf d xj mfqqf tywf. Ajwifi jx vzj, xn
rn xjñtw its Vznotyj xfsf ijxyf mjwnif t hfíif d dt st vzjit htsywjhmt
ijqqf, st ywthfwíf rnx jxujwfsefx hts jq rjotw yíyzqt ij Jxufñf.

Ytifx jxyfx uqáynhfx jxyfgf jxhzhmfsit, rzd fyjsyt, its Vznotyj, d,
xjsyásitxj js jq qjhmt htrt uzit, ytrfsit ij qf rfst f qf ajsyjwf, qj inot:

-Hwjjirj, kjwrtxf xjñtwf, vzj tx utiénx qqfrfw ajsyzwtxf utw mfgjw fqtofit
js jxyj azjxywt hfxynqqt f rn ujwxtsf, vzj jx yfq, vzj xn dt st qf fqfgt,
jx utw qt vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj vzj qf fqfgfsef uwtuwnf jsanqjhj; ujwt rn
jxhzijwt tx inwá vznés xtd. Xóqt tx inlt vzj yjsiwé jyjwsfrjsyj jxhwnyt js
rn rjrtwnf jq xjwanhnt vzj rj mfgjijx kjhmt, ufwf flwfijhéwtxqt rnjsywfx qf
anif rj izwfwj; d uqzlznjwf f qtx fqytx hnjqtx vzj jq frtw st rj yzanjwf
yfs wjsinit d yfs xzojyt f xzx qjdjx, d qtx totx ij fvzjqqf mjwrtxf nslwfyf
vzj inlt jsywj rnx injsyjx; vzj qtx ijxyf kjwrtxf itshjqqf kzjwfs xjñtwjx
ij rn qngjwyfi.

Htskzxfx jxyfgfs qf ajsyjwf d xz mnof d qf gzjsf ij Rfwnytwsjx tdjsit qfx
wfetsjx ijq fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt, vzj fxí qfx jsyjsiífs htrt xn mfgqfwf js
lwnjlt, fzsvzj gnjs fqhfsefwts vzj ytifx xj jshfrnsfgfs f tkwjhnrnjsyt d
wjvznjgwtx; d, htrt st zxfifx f xjrjofsyj qjslzfoj, rnwágfsqj d
firnwágfsxj, d ufwjhífqjx tywt mtrgwj ij qtx vzj xj zxfgfs; d,
flwfijhnésitqj hts ajsyjwnqjx wfetsjx xzx tkwjhnrnjsytx, qj ijofwts; d qf
fxyzwnfsf Rfwnytwsjx hzwó f Xfshmt, vzj st rjstx qt mfgíf rjsjxyjw vzj xz
frt.

Mfgíf jq fwwnjwt htshjwyfit hts jqqf vzj fvzjqqf sthmj xj wjkthnqfwífs
ozsytx, d jqqf qj mfgíf ifit xz ufqfgwf ij vzj, js jxyfsit xtxjlfitx qtx
mzéxujijx d izwrnjsit xzx frtx, qj nwíf f gzxhfw d xfynxkfhjwqj jq lzxyt js
hzfsyt qj rfsifxj. D hzésyfxj ijxyf gzjsf rtef vzj ofráx int xjrjofsyjx
ufqfgwfx vzj st qfx hzruqnjxj, fzsvzj qfx injxj js zs rtsyj d xns yjxynlt
fqlzst; utwvzj uwjxzríf rzd ij mnifqlf, d st yjsíf utw fkwjsyf jxyfw js
fvzjq jojwhnhnt ij xjwanw js qf ajsyf, utwvzj ijhíf jqqf vzj ijxlwfhnfx d
rfqtx xzhjxtx qf mfgífs ywfíit f fvzjq jxyfit.

Jq izwt, jxywjhmt, futhfit d kjrjsynit qjhmt ij its Vznotyj jxyfgf uwnrjwt
js rnyfi ij fvzjq jxywjqqfit jxyfgqt, d qzjlt, ozsyt f éq, mnet jq xzdt
Xfshmt, vzj xóqt htsyjsíf zsf jxyjwf ij jsjf d zsf rfsyf, vzj fsyjx
rtxywfgf xjw ij fsojt yzsinit vzj ij qfsf. Xzhjiíf f jxytx itx qjhmtx jq
ijq fwwnjwt, kfgwnhfit, htrt xj mf inhmt, ij qfx jsofqrfx d ytit jq fitwst
ij qtx itx rjotwjx rzqtx vzj ywfíf, fzsvzj jwfs ithj, qzhntx, ltwitx d
kfrtxtx, utwvzj jwf zst ij qtx wnhtx fwwnjwtx ij Fwéafqt, xjlús qt inhj jq
fzytw ijxyf mnxytwnf, vzj ijxyj fwwnjwt mfhj ufwynhzqfw rjshnós, utwvzj qj
htsthíf rzd gnjs, d fzs vznjwjs ijhnw vzj jwf fqlt ufwnjsyj xzdt. Kzjwf ij
vzj Hnij Rfmfrfyj Gjsjsljqn kzj mnxytwnfitw rzd hzwntxt d rzd uzsyzfq js
ytifx qfx htxfx; d éhmfxj gnjs ij ajw, uzjx qfx vzj vzjifs wjkjwnifx, hts
xjw yfs rísnrfx d yfs wfyjwfx, st qfx vznxt ufxfw js xnqjshnt; ij itsij
utiwás ytrfw jojruqt qtx mnxytwnfitwjx lwfajx, vzj stx hzjsyfs qfx fhhntsjx
yfs htwyf d xzhnsyfrjsyj vzj fujsfx stx qqjlfs f qtx qfgntx, ijoásitxj js
jq ynsyjwt, df utw ijxhznit, utw rfqnhnf t nlstwfshnf, qt ráx xzxyfshnfq ij
qf tgwf. ¡Gnjs mfdf rnq ajhjx jq fzytw ij Yfgqfsyj ij Wnhfrtsyj, d fvzjq
ijq tywt qngwt itsij xj hzjsyf qtx mjhmtx ijq htsij Ytrnqqfx; d hts vzé
uzsyzfqnifi qt ijxhwngjs ytit!

Inlt, uzjx, vzj ijxuzéx ij mfgjw anxnyfit jq fwwnjwt f xz wjhzf d iáitqj jq
xjlzsit unjsxt, xj yjsinó js xzx jsofqrfx d xj int f jxujwfw f xz
uzsyzfqíxnrf Rfwnytwsjx. Df jxyfgf Xfshmt gnerfit d fhtxyfit, d, fzsvzj
uwthzwfgf itwrnw, st qt htsxjsyíf jq itqtw ij xzx htxynqqfx; d its Vznotyj,
hts jq itqtw ij qfx xzdfx, yjsíf qtx totx fgnjwytx htrt qnjgwj. Ytif qf
ajsyf jxyfgf js xnqjshnt, d js ytif jqqf st mfgíf tywf qze vzj qf vzj ifgf
zsf qárufwf vzj htqlfif js rjint ijq utwyfq fwiíf.

Jxyf rfwfanqqtxf vznjyzi, d qtx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj xnjruwj szjxywt hfgfqqjwt
ywfíf ij qtx xzhjxtx vzj f hfif ufxt xj hzjsyfs js qtx qngwtx fzytwjx ij xz
ijxlwfhnf, qj ywzot f qf nrflnsfhnós zsf ij qfx jxywfñfx qthzwfx vzj
gzjsfrjsyj nrflnsfwxj uzjijs. D kzj vzj éq xj nrflnsó mfgjw qqjlfit f zs
kfrtxt hfxynqqt -vzj, htrt xj mf inhmt, hfxynqqtx jwfs f xz ufwjhjw ytifx
qfx ajsyfx itsij fqtofgf-, d vzj qf mnof ijq ajsyjwt qt jwf ijq xjñtw ijq
hfxynqqt, qf hzfq, ajshnif ij xz ljsynqjef, xj mfgíf jsfrtwfit iéq d
uwtrjynit vzj fvzjqqf sthmj, f kzwyt ij xzx ufiwjx, ajsiwíf f dfhjw hts éq
zsf gzjsf unjef; d, yjsnjsit ytif jxyf vznrjwf, vzj éq xj mfgíf kfgwnhfit,
utw knwrj d afqjijwf, xj htrjseó f fhznyfw d f ujsxfw js jq ujqnlwtxt
ywfshj js vzj xz mtsjxynifi xj mfgíf ij ajw, d uwtuzxt js xz htwfeós ij st
htrjyjw fqjatxíf f xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, fzsvzj qf rjxrf wjnsf
Lnsjgwf hts xz ifrf Vznsyfñtsf xj qj uzxnjxjs ijqfsyj.

Ujsxfsit, uzjx, js jxytx inxufwfyjx, xj qqjló jq ynjrut d qf mtwf -vzj ufwf
éq kzj rjslzfif- ij qf ajsnif ij qf fxyzwnfsf, qf hzfq, js hfrnxf d
ijxhfqef, htlnitx qtx hfgjqqtx js zsf fqgfsjlf ij kzxyás, hts yáhnytx d
fyjsyfitx ufxtx, jsywó js jq futxjsyt itsij qtx ywjx fqtofgfs js gzxhf ijq
fwwnjwt. Ujwt, fujsfx qqjló f qf uzjwyf, hzfsit its Vznotyj qf xnsynó, d,
xjsyásitxj js qf hfrf, f ujxfw ij xzx gnerfx d hts itqtw ij xzx htxynqqfx,
yjsinó qtx gwfetx ufwf wjhjgnw f xz kjwrtxf itshjqqf. Qf fxyzwnfsf, vzj,
ytif wjhtlnif d hfqqfsit, ngf hts qfx rfstx ijqfsyj gzxhfsit f xz vzjwnit,
ytuó hts qtx gwfetx ij its Vznotyj, jq hzfq qf fxnó kzjwyjrjsyj ij zsf
rzñjhf d, ynwásitqf mfhíf xí, xns vzj jqqf txfxj mfgqfw ufqfgwf, qf mnet
xjsyfw xtgwj qf hfrf. Yjsyóqj qzjlt qf hfrnxf, d, fzsvzj jqqf jwf ij
mfwunqqjwf, f éq qj ufwjhnó xjw ij knsíxnrt d ijqlfit hjsifq. Ywfíf js qfx
rzñjhfx zsfx hzjsyfx ij aniwt, ujwt f éq qj injwts anxqzrgwjx ij uwjhntxfx
ujwqfx twnjsyfqjx. Qtx hfgjqqtx, vzj js fqlzsf rfsjwf ynwfgfs f hwnsjx, éq
qtx rfwhó utw mjgwfx ij qzhniíxnrt twt ij Fwfgnf, hzdt wjxuqfsitw fq ijq
rjxrt xtq jxhzwjhíf. D jq fqnjsyt, vzj, xns izif fqlzsf, tqíf f jsxfqfif
knfrgwj d ywfxsthmfif, f éq qj ufwjhnó vzj fwwtofgf ij xz gthf zs tqtw
xzfaj d fwtráynht; d, knsfqrjsyj, éq qf unsyó js xz nrflnsfhnós ij qf rnxrf
ywfef d rtit vzj qt mfgíf qjíit js xzx qngwtx ij qf tywf uwnshjxf vzj anst
f ajw jq rfq kjwnit hfgfqqjwt, ajshnif ij xzx frtwjx, hts ytitx qtx fitwstx
vzj fvzí afs uzjxytx. D jwf yfsyf qf hjlzjifi ijq utgwj mnifqlt, vzj jq
yfhyt, sn jq fqnjsyt, sn tywfx htxfx vzj ywfíf js xí qf gzjsf itshjqqf, st
qj ijxjslfñfgfs, qfx hzfqjx uzinjwfs mfhjw atrnyfw f tywt vzj st kzjwf
fwwnjwt; fsyjx, qj ufwjhíf vzj yjsíf jsywj xzx gwfetx f qf intxf ij qf
mjwrtxzwf. D, yjsnésitqf gnjs fxnif, hts ate frtwtxf d gfof qj htrjseó f
ijhnw:

-Vznxnjwf mfqqfwrj js yéwrnstx, kjwrtxf d fqyf xjñtwf, ij utijw uflfw
yfrfñf rjwhji htrt qf vzj hts qf anxyf ij azjxywf lwfs kjwrtxzwf rj mfgjijx
kjhmt, ujwt mf vzjwnit qf ktwyzsf, vzj st xj hfsxf ij ujwxjlznw f qtx
gzjstx, utsjwrj js jxyj qjhmt, itsij dflt yfs rtqnit d vzjgwfsyfit vzj,
fzsvzj ij rn atqzsyfi vznxnjwf xfynxkfhjw f qf azjxywf, kzjwf nrutxngqj. D
ráx, vzj xj fñfij f jxyf nrutxngnqnifi tywf rfdtw, vzj jx qf uwtrjynif kj
vzj yjslt ifif f qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, úsnhf xjñtwf ij rnx ráx
jxhtsinitx ujsxfrnjsytx; vzj xn jxyt st mzgnjwf ij utw rjint, st kzjwf dt
yfs xfsint hfgfqqjwt vzj ijofwf ufxfw js gqfsht qf ajsyzwtxf thfxnós js vzj
azjxywf lwfs gtsifi rj mf uzjxyt.

Rfwnytwsjx jxyfgf htsltofiíxnrf d ywfxzifsit, ij ajwxj yfs fxnif ij its
Vznotyj, d, xns jsyjsijw sn jxyfw fyjsyf f qfx wfetsjx vzj qj ijhíf,
uwthzwfgf, xns mfgqfw ufqfgwf, ijxfxnwxj. Jq gzjst ijq fwwnjwt, f vznjs
yjsífs ijxunjwyt xzx rfqtx ijxjtx, ijxij jq uzsyt vzj jsywó xz htnrf utw qf
uzjwyf, qf xnsynó; jxyzat fyjsyfrjsyj jxhzhmfsit ytit qt vzj its Vznotyj
ijhíf, d, hjqtxt ij vzj qf fxyzwnfsf qj mzgnjxj kfqyfit qf ufqfgwf utw
tywt, xj kzj qqjlfsit ráx fq qjhmt ij its Vznotyj, d jxyúatxj vzjit mfxyf
ajw js vzé ufwfgfs fvzjqqfx wfetsjx, vzj éq st utiíf jsyjsijw. Ujwt, htrt
ant vzj qf rtef ktwhjofgf utw ijxfxnwxj d its Vznotyj ywfgfofgf utw
yjsjqqf, ufwjhnésitqj rfq qf gzwqf, jsfwgtqó jq gwfet js fqyt d ijxhfwló
yfs yjwwngqj uzñfif xtgwj qfx jxywjhmfx vznofifx ijq jsfrtwfit hfgfqqjwt,
vzj qj gfñó ytif qf gthf js xfslwj; d, st htsyjsyt hts jxyt, xj qj xzgnó
jshnrf ij qfx htxynqqfx, d hts qtx unjx ráx vzj ij ywtyj, xj qfx ufxjó
ytifx ij hfgt f hfgt.

Jq qjhmt, vzj jwf zs utht jsijgqj d ij st knwrjx kzsifrjsytx, st uzinjsit
xzkwnw qf fñfinizwf ijq fwwnjwt, int htsxnlt js jq xzjqt, f hzdt lwfs wznit
ijxujwyó jq ajsyjwt, d qzjlt nrflnsó vzj ijgífs ij xjw ujsijshnfx ij
Rfwnytwsjx, utwvzj, mfgnésitqf qqfrfit f athjx, st wjxutsiíf. Hts jxyf
xtxujhmf xj qjafsyó, d, jshjsinjsit zs hfsinq, xj kzj mfhnf itsij mfgíf
xjsynit qf ujqfef. Qf rtef, anjsit vzj xz frt ajsíf, d vzj jwf ij htsinhnós
yjwwngqj, ytif rjiwtxnhf d fqgtwtyfif, xj fhtlnó f qf hfrf ij Xfshmt Ufsef,
vzj fús itwríf, d fqqí xj fhtwwzhó d xj mnet zs tanqqt. Jq ajsyjwt jsywó
inhnjsit:

-¿Fiósij jxyáx, uzyf? F gzjs xjlzwt vzj xts yzx htxfx éxyfx.

Js jxyt, ijxujwyó Xfshmt, d, xnsynjsit fvzjq gzqyt hfxn jshnrf ij xí, ujsxó
vzj yjsíf qf ujxfinqqf, d htrjseó f ifw uzñfifx f zsf d tywf ufwyj, d jsywj
tywfx fqhfseó hts st xé hzásyfx f Rfwnytwsjx, qf hzfq, xjsynif ijq itqtw,
jhmfsit f wtifw qf mtsjxynifi, int jq wjytwst f Xfshmt hts yfsyfx vzj, f xz
ijxujhmt, qj vznyó jq xzjñt; jq hzfq, anésitxj ywfyfw ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf d
xns xfgjw ij vznés, fqeásitxj htrt uzit, xj fgwfeó hts Rfwnytwsjx, d
htrjsefwts jsywj qtx itx qf ráx wjñnif d lwfhntxf jxhfwfrzef ijq rzsit.
Anjsit, uzjx, jq fwwnjwt, f qf qzrgwj ijq hfsinq ijq ajsyjwt, hzáq fsifgf
xz ifrf, ijofsit f its Vznotyj, fhzinó f ifqqj jq xthtwwt sjhjxfwnt. Qt
rnxrt mnet jq ajsyjwt, ujwt hts nsyjshnós inkjwjsyj, utwvzj kzj f hfxynlfw
f qf rtef, hwjdjsit xns izif vzj jqqf xtqf jwf qf thfxnós ij ytif fvzjqqf
fwrtsíf. D fxí htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj: jq lfyt fq wfyt, jq wfyt f qf hzjwif, qf
hzjwif fq ufqt, ifgf jq fwwnjwt f Xfshmt, Xfshmt f qf rtef, qf rtef f éq,
jq ajsyjwt f qf rtef, d ytitx rjszijfgfs hts yfsyf uwnjxf vzj st xj ifgfs
uzsyt ij wjutxt; d kzj qt gzjst vzj fq ajsyjwt xj qj fufló jq hfsinq, d,
htrt vzjifwts fxhzwfx, iágfsxj yfs xns htrufxnós ytitx f gzqyt vzj, f
itvznjwf vzj utsífs qf rfst, st ijofgfs htxf xfsf.

Fqtofgf fhfxt fvzjqqf sthmj js qf ajsyf zs hzfiwnqqjwt ij qtx vzj qqfrfs ij
qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi Anjof ij Ytqjit, jq hzfq, tdjsit fsxnrjxrt jq jxywfñt
jxywzjsit ij qf ujqjf, fxnó ij xz rjinf afwf d ij qf hfof ij qfyf ij xzx
yíyzqtx, d jsywó fxhzwfx js jq futxjsyt, inhnjsit:

-¡Yéslfsxj f qf ozxynhnf! ¡Yéslfsxj f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi!

D jq uwnrjwt hts vznjs ytuó kzj hts jq fuzñjfit ij its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgf
js xz ijwwngfit qjhmt, yjsinit gthf fwwngf, xns xjsynit fqlzst, d,
jhmásitqj f ynjsyt rfst f qfx gfwgfx, st hjxfgf ij ijhnw:

-¡Kfatw f qf ozxynhnf!

Ujwt, anjsit vzj jq vzj yjsíf fxnit st xj gzqqíf sn rjsjfgf, xj int f
jsyjsijw vzj jxyfgf rzjwyt, d vzj qtx vzj fqqí ijsywt jxyfgfs jwfs xzx
rfyfitwjx; d hts jxyf xtxujhmf wjktweó qf ate, inhnjsit:

-¡Hnéwwjxj qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf! ¡Rnwjs st xj afdf sfinj, vzj mfs rzjwyt
fvzí f zs mtrgwj!

Jxyf ate xtgwjxfqyó f ytitx, d hfif hzfq ijoó qf ujsijshnf js jq lwfit vzj
qj ytró qf ate. Wjynwóxj jq ajsyjwt f xz futxjsyt, jq fwwnjwt f xzx
jsofqrfx, qf rtef f xz wfshmt; xtqtx qtx ijxajsyzwfitx its Vznotyj d Xfshmt
st xj uzinjwts rtajw ij itsij jxyfgfs. Xtqyó js jxyt jq hzfiwnqqjwt qf
gfwgf ij its Vznotyj, d xfqnó f gzxhfw qze ufwf gzxhfw d uwjsijw qtx
ijqnshzjsyjx; rfx st qf mfqqó, utwvzj jq ajsyjwt, ij nsizxywnf, mfgíf
rzjwyt qf qárufwf hzfsit xj wjynwó f xz jxyfshnf, d kzjqj ktwetxt fhzinw f
qf hmnrjsjf, itsij, hts rzhmt ywfgfot d ynjrut, jshjsinó jq hzfiwnqqjwt
tywt hfsinq.





Hfuíyzqt CANN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzjs qtx nsszrjwfgqjx ywfgfotx vzj jq gwfat
its Vznotyj d xz gzjs jxhzijwt Xfshmt Ufsef ufxfwts js qf ajsyf vzj, utw xz
rfq, ujsxó vzj jwf hfxynqqt


Mfgíf df azjqyt js jxyj ynjrut ij xz ufwfxnxrt its Vznotyj, d, hts jq rjxrt
ytst ij ate hts vzj jq iíf fsyjx mfgíf qqfrfit f xz jxhzijwt, hzfsit jxyfgf
yjsinit js jq afq ij qfx jxyfhfx, qj htrjseó f qqfrfw, inhnjsit:

-Xfshmt frnlt, ¿izjwrjx? ¿Izjwrjx, frnlt Xfshmt?

-¿Vzé yjslt ij itwrnw, ujxnf f rí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt, qqjst ij ujxfizrgwj d
ij ijxujhmt-; vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj ytitx qtx infgqtx mfs fsifit htsrnlt
jxyf sthmj?

-Uzéijxqt hwjjw fsxí, xns izif -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj, t dt xé
utht, t jxyj hfxynqqt jx jshfsyfit. Utwvzj mfx ij xfgjw... Rfx, jxyt vzj
fmtwf vznjwt ijhnwyj mfxrj ij ozwfw vzj qt yjsiwáx xjhwjyt mfxyf ijxuzéx ij
rn rzjwyj.

-Xí ozwt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Iíltqt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj xtd jsjrnlt ij vzj xj vznyj qf mtswf
f sfinj.

-Inlt vzj xí ozwt -ytwsó f ijhnw Xfshmt- vzj qt hfqqfwé mfxyf ijxuzéx ij
qtx iífx ij azjxywf rjwhji, d uqjlf f Intx vzj qt uzjif ijxhzgwnw rfñfsf.
-¿Yfs rfqfx tgwfx yj mflt, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj rj vzjwwífx
ajw rzjwyt hts yfsyf gwjajifi?

-St jx utw jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnst utwvzj xtd jsjrnlt ij lzfwifw rzhmt
qfx htxfx, d st vzjwwíf vzj xj rj uziwnjxjs ij lzfwififx.

-Xjf utw qt vzj kzjwj -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj ráx kít ij yz frtw d ij yz
htwyjxíf; d fxí, mfx ij xfgjw vzj jxyf sthmj rj mf xzhjinit zsf ij qfx ráx
jxywfñfx fajsyzwfx vzj dt xfgwé jshfwjhjw; d, utw htsyáwyjqf js gwjaj,
xfgwáx vzj utht mf vzj f rí anst qf mnof ijq xjñtw ijxyj hfxynqqt, vzj jx
qf ráx fuzjxyf d kjwrtxf itshjqqf vzj js lwfs ufwyj ij qf ynjwwf xj uzjij
mfqqfw. ¿Vzé yj utiwíf ijhnw ijq fitwst ij xz ujwxtsf? ¿Vzé ij xz lfqqfwit
jsyjsinrnjsyt? ¿Vzé ij tywfx htxfx thzqyfx, vzj, utw lzfwifw qf kj vzj ijgt
f rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, ijofwé ufxfw nsyfhyfx d js xnqjshnt? Xóqt
yj vznjwt ijhnw vzj, jsanintxt jq hnjqt ij yfsyt gnjs htrt qf ajsyzwf rj
mfgíf uzjxyt js qfx rfstx, t vzneá, d jxyt jx qt ráx hnjwyt, vzj, htrt
yjslt inhmt, jx jshfsyfit jxyj hfxynqqt, fq ynjrut vzj dt jxyfgf hts jqqf
js izqhíxnrtx d frtwtxíxnrtx htqtvzntx, xns vzj dt qf anjxj sn xzunjxj utw
iósij ajsíf, anst zsf rfst ujlfif f fqlús gwfet ij fqlús ijxhtrzsfq lnlfsyj
d fxjsyórj zsf uzñfif js qfx vznofifx, yfq, vzj qfx yjslt ytifx gfñfifx js
xfslwj; d ijxuzéx rj rtqnó ij yfq xzjwyj vzj jxytd ujtw vzj fdjw hzfsit qtx
lfqqjltx, vzj, utw ijrfxífx ij Wthnsfsyj, stx mnhnjwts jq flwfant vzj
xfgjx. Utw itsij htsojyzwt vzj jq yjxtwt ij qf kjwrtxzwf ijxyf itshjqqf qj
ijgj ij lzfwifw fqlús jshfsyfit rtwt, d st ijgj ij xjw ufwf rí.

-Sn ufwf rí yfrutht -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj ráx ij hzfywthnjsytx rtwtx
rj mfs futwwjfit f rí, ij rfsjwf vzj jq rtqnrnjsyt ij qfx jxyfhfx kzj
ytwyfx d ufs unsyfit. Ujwt iílfrj, xjñtw, ¿hórt qqfrf f éxyf gzjsf d wfwf
fajsyzwf, mfgnjsit vzjifit ijqqf hzfq vzjifrtx? Fzs azjxywf rjwhji rjstx
rfq, uzjx yzat js xzx rfstx fvzjqqf nshtrufwfgqj kjwrtxzwf vzj mf inhmt,
ujwt dt, ¿vzé yzaj xnst qtx rfdtwjx utwwfetx vzj unjsxt wjhjgnw js ytif rn
anif? ¡Ijxinhmfit ij rí d ij qf rfiwj vzj rj ufwnó, vzj sn xtd hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj, sn qt unjsxt xjw ofráx, d ij ytifx qfx rfqfsifsefx rj hfgj qf
rfdtw ufwyj!

-Qzjlt, ¿yfrgnés jxyáx yú futwwjfit? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-¿St qj mj inhmt vzj xí, ujxnf f rn qnsfoj? -inot Xfshmt.

-St yjslfx ujsf, frnlt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj dt mfwé fltwf jq gáqxfrt
uwjhntxt hts vzj xfsfwjrtx js zs fgwnw d hjwwfw ij totx.

Fhfgó js jxyt ij jshjsijw jq hfsinq jq hzfiwnqqjwt, d jsywó f ajw jq vzj
ujsxfgf vzj jwf rzjwyt; d, fxí htrt qj ant jsywfw Xfshmt, anésitqj ajsnw js
hfrnxf d hts xz ufñt ij hfgjef d hfsinq js qf rfst, d hts zsf rzd rfqf
hfwf, uwjlzsyó f xz frt:

-Xjñtw, ¿xn xjwá éxyj, f inhmf, jq rtwt jshfsyfit, vzj stx azjqaj f
hfxynlfw, xn xj ijoó fqlt js jq ynsyjwt?

-St uzjij xjw jq rtwt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj qtx jshfsyfitx st xj
ijofs ajw ij sfinj.

-Xn st xj ijofs ajw, iéofsxj xjsynw -inot Xfshmt-; xn st, iílfsqt rnx
jxufqifx.

-Yfrgnés qt utiwífs ijhnw qfx rífx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ujwt st jx
gfxyfsyj nsinhnt éxj ufwf hwjjw vzj jxyj vzj xj ajj xjf jq jshfsyfit rtwt.
Qqjló jq hzfiwnqqjwt, d, htrt qtx mfqqó mfgqfsit js yfs xtxjlfif
htsajwxfhnós, vzjió xzxujsxt. Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj fús its Vznotyj xj jxyfgf
gthf fwwngf, xns utijwxj rjsjfw, ij uzwt rtqnit d jruqfxyfit. Qqjlóxj f éq
jq hzfiwnqqjwt d iíotqj:

-Uzjx, ¿hórt af, gzjs mtrgwj?

-Mfgqfwf dt ráx gnjs hwnfit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xn kzjwf vzj atx.
¿Úxfxj js jxyf ynjwwf mfgqfw ijxf xzjwyj f qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx,
rfofijwt?

Jq hzfiwnqqjwt, vzj xj ant ywfyfw yfs rfq ij zs mtrgwj ij yfs rfq ufwjhjw,
st qt uzit xzkwnw, d, fqefsit jq hfsinq hts ytit xz fhjnyj, int f its
Vznotyj hts éq js qf hfgjef, ij xzjwyj vzj qj ijoó rzd gnjs ijxhfqfgwfit;
d, htrt ytit vzjió fxhzwfx, xfqnóxj qzjlt; d Xfshmt Ufsef inot:

-Xns izif, xjñtw, vzj éxyj jx jq rtwt jshfsyfit, d ijgj ij lzfwifw jq
yjxtwt ufwf tywtx, d ufwf stxtywtx xóqt lzfwif qfx uzñfifx d qtx
hfsinqfetx.

-Fxí jx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d st mfd vzj mfhjw hfxt ijxyfx htxfx ij
jshfsyfrjsytx, sn mfd ufwf vzé ytrfw hóqjwf sn jstot hts jqqfx; vzj, htrt
xts nsanxngqjx d kfsyáxynhfx, st mfqqfwjrtx ij vznés ajslfwstx, fzsvzj ráx
qt uwthzwjrtx. Qjaásyfyj, Xfshmt, xn uzjijx, d qqfrf fq fqhfnij ijxyf
ktwyfqjef, d uwthzwf vzj xj rj ié zs utht ij fhjnyj, anst, xfq d wtrjwt
ufwf mfhjw jq xfqzyíkjwt gáqxfrt; vzj js ajwifi vzj hwjt vzj qt mj gnjs
rjsjxyjw fmtwf, utwvzj xj rj af rzhmf xfslwj ij qf mjwnif vzj jxyf kfsyfxrf
rj mf ifit.

Qjaásytxj Xfshmt hts mfwyt itqtw ij xzx mzjxtx, d kzj fxhzwfx itsij jxyfgf
jq ajsyjwt; d, jshtsywásitxj hts jq hzfiwnqqjwt, vzj jxyfgf jxhzhmfsit js
vzé ufwfgf xz jsjrnlt, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, vznjs vznjwf vzj xjánx, mfhjistx rjwhji d gjsjknhnt ij ifwstx zs
utht ij wtrjwt, fhjnyj, xfq d anst, vzj jx rjsjxyjw ufwf hzwfw zst ij qtx
rjotwjx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj mfd js qf ynjwwf, jq hzfq dfhj js fvzjqqf
hfrf, rfqkjwnit utw qfx rfstx ijq jshfsyfit rtwt vzj jxyá js jxyf ajsyf.
Hzfsit jq hzfiwnqqjwt yfq tdó, yúatqj utw mtrgwj kfqyt ij xjxt; d, utwvzj
df htrjsefgf f frfsjhjw, fgwnó qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, d, qqfrfsit fq
ajsyjwt, qj inot qt vzj fvzjq gzjs mtrgwj vzjwíf. Jq ajsyjwt qj uwtajdó ij
hzfsyt vznxt, d Xfshmt xj qt qqjaó f its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgf hts qfx rfstx
js qf hfgjef, vzjoásitxj ijq itqtw ijq hfsinqfet, vzj st qj mfgíf mjhmt ráx
rfq vzj qjafsyfwqj itx hmnhmtsjx fqlt hwjhnitx, d qt vzj éq ujsxfgf vzj jwf
xfslwj st jwf xnst xzitw vzj xzifgf hts qf htsltof ij qf ufxfif ytwrjsyf.
Js wjxtqzhnós, éq ytró xzx xnruqjx, ij qtx hzfqjx mnet zs htruzjxyt,
rjehqásitqtx ytitx d hthnésitqtx zs gzjs jxufhnt, mfxyf vzj qj ufwjhnó vzj
jxyfgfs js xz uzsyt. Uninó qzjlt fqlzsf wjitrf ufwf jhmfqqt, d, htrt st qf
mzgt js qf ajsyf, xj wjxtqanó ij utsjqqt js zsf fqhzef t fhjnyjwf ij mtof
ij qfyf, ij vznjs jq ajsyjwt qj mnet lwfyf itsfhnós. D qzjlt inot xtgwj qf
fqhzef ráx ij thmjsyf ufyjwstxywjx d tywfx yfsyfx fajrfwífx, xfqajx d
hwjitx, d f hfif ufqfgwf fhtrufñfgf zsf hwze, f rtit ij gjsinhnós; f ytit
qt hzfq xj mfqqfwts uwjxjsyjx Xfshmt, jq ajsyjwt d hzfiwnqqjwt; vzj df jq
fwwnjwt xtxjlfifrjsyj fsifgf jsyjsinjsit js jq gjsjknhnt ij xzx rfhmtx.
Mjhmt jxyt, vznxt éq rjxrt mfhjw qzjlt qf jxujwnjshnf ij qf anwyzi ij fvzjq
uwjhntxt gáqxfrt vzj éq xj nrflnsfgf; d fxí, xj gjgnó, ij qt vzj st uzit
hfgjw js qf fqhzef d vzjifgf js qf tqqf itsij xj mfgíf hthnit, hfxn rjinf
fezrgwj; d fujsfx qt fhfgó ij gjgjw, hzfsit htrjseó f atrnyfw ij rfsjwf vzj
st qj vzjió htxf js jq jxyórflt; d hts qfx fsxnfx d flnyfhnós ijq aórnyt qj
int zs xzitw htuntxíxnrt, utw qt hzfq rfsió vzj qj fwwtufxjs d qj ijofxjs
xtqt. Mnhnéwtsqt fsxí, d vzjióxj itwrnit ráx ij ywjx mtwfx, fq hfgt ij qfx
hzfqjx ijxujwyó d xj xnsynó fqnanfiíxnrt ijq hzjwut, d js yfq rfsjwf rjotw
ij xz vzjgwfsyfrnjsyt vzj xj yzat utw xfst; d ajwifijwfrjsyj hwjdó vzj
mfgíf fhjwyfit hts jq gáqxfrt ij Knjwfgwáx, d vzj hts fvzjq wjrjint utiíf
fhtrjyjw ijxij fqqí fijqfsyj, xns yjrtw fqlzst, hzfqjxvznjwf wznsfx,
gfyfqqfx d ujsijshnfx, utw ujqnlwtxfx vzj kzjxjs.

Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj yfrgnés yzat f rnqflwt qf rjotwíf ij xz frt, qj wtló vzj
qj injxj f éq qt vzj vzjifgf js qf tqqf, vzj st jwf uthf hfsynifi.
Htshjinóxjqt its Vznotyj, d éq, ytrásitqf f itx rfstx, hts gzjsf kj d rjotw
yfqfsyj, xj qf jhmó f ujhmtx, d jsafxó gnjs utht rjstx vzj xz frt. Jx,
uzjx, jq hfxt vzj jq jxyórflt ijq utgwj Xfshmt st ijgíf ij xjw yfs ijqnhfit
htrt jq ij xz frt, d fxí, uwnrjwt vzj atrnyfxj, qj injwts yfsyfx fsxnfx d
gfxhfx, hts yfsytx ywfxzitwjx d ijxrfdtx vzj éq ujsxó gnjs d ajwifijwfrjsyj
vzj jwf qqjlfif xz úqynrf mtwf; d, anésitxj yfs fkqnlnit d htsltofit,
rfqijhíf jq gáqxfrt d fq qfiwós vzj xj qt mfgíf ifit. Anésitqj fxí its
Vznotyj, qj inot:

-Dt hwjt, Xfshmt, vzj ytit jxyj rfq yj anjsj ij st xjw fwrfit hfgfqqjwt,
utwvzj yjslt ufwf rí vzj jxyj qnhtw st ijgj ij fuwtajhmfw f qtx vzj st qt
xts.

-Xn jxt xfgíf azjxywf rjwhji -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, ¡rfq mfdf dt d ytif rn
ufwjsyjqf!, ¿ufwf vzé htsxnsynó vzj qt lzxyfxj?

Js jxyt, mnet xz tujwfhnós jq gwjgfoj, d htrjseó jq utgwj jxhzijwt f
ijxflzfwxj utw jsywfrgfx hfsfqjx, hts yfsyf uwnjxf vzj qf jxyjwf ij jsjf,
xtgwj vznjs xj mfgíf azjqyt f jhmfw, sn qf rfsyf ij fsojt hts vzj xj
hzgwíf, kzjwts ráx ij uwtajhmt. Xzifgf d ywfxzifgf hts yfqjx ufwfxnxrtx d
fhhnijsyjx, vzj st xtqfrjsyj éq, xnst ytitx ujsxfwts vzj xj qj fhfgfgf qf
anif. Izwóqj jxyf gtwwfxhf d rfqf fsifsef hfxn itx mtwfx, fq hfgt ij qfx
hzfqjx st vzjió htrt xz frt, xnst yfs rtqnit d vzjgwfsyfit vzj st xj utiíf
yjsjw.

Ujwt its Vznotyj, vzj, htrt xj mf inhmt, xj xnsynó fqnanfit d xfst, vznxt
ufwynwxj qzjlt f gzxhfw fajsyzwfx, ufwjhnésitqj vzj ytit jq ynjrut vzj fqqí
xj yfwifgf jwf vznyáwxjqj fq rzsit d f qtx js éq rjsjxyjwtxtx ij xz kfatw d
frufwt; d ráx hts qf xjlzwnifi d htsknfsef vzj qqjafgf js xz gáqxfrt. D
fxí, ktwefit ijxyj ijxjt, éq rnxrt jsxnqqó f Wthnsfsyj d jsfqgfwió fq
ozrjsyt ij xz jxhzijwt, f vznjs yfrgnés fdzió f ajxynw d f xzgnw js jq
fxst. Uúxtxj qzjlt f hfgfqqt, d, qqjlásitxj f zs wnshós ij qf ajsyf, fxnó
ij zs qfseós vzj fqqí jxyfgf, ufwf vzj qj xnwanjxj ij qfsef.

Jxyágfsqj rnwfsit ytitx hzfsytx mfgíf js qf ajsyf, vzj ufxfgfs ij ráx ij
ajnsyj ujwxtsfx; rnwágfqj yfrgnés qf mnof ijq ajsyjwt, d éq yfrgnés st
vznyfgf qtx totx ijqqf, d ij hzfsit js hzfsit fwwtofgf zs xtxunwt vzj
ufwjhíf vzj qj fwwfshfgf ij qt uwtkzsit ij xzx jsywfñfx, d ytitx ujsxfgfs
vzj ijgíf ij xjw ijq itqtw vzj xjsyíf js qfx htxynqqfx; f qt rjstx,
ujsxágfsqt fvzjqqtx vzj qf sthmj fsyjx qj mfgífs anxyt gnerfw.

Df vzj jxyzanjwts qtx itx f hfgfqqt, uzjxyt f qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, qqfró
fq ajsyjwt, d hts ate rzd wjutxfif d lwfaj qj inot:

-Rzhmfx d rzd lwfsijx xts qfx rjwhjijx, xjñtw fqhfnij, vzj js jxyj azjxywt
hfxynqqt mj wjhjgnit, d vzjit tgqnlfiíxnrt f flwfijhéwtxqfx ytitx qtx iífx
ij rn anif. Xn tx qfx uzjit uflfw js mfhjwtx ajslfit ij fqlús xtgjwgnt vzj
tx mfdf kjhmt fqlús flwfant, xfgji vzj rn tknhnt st jx tywt xnst afqjw f
qtx vzj utht uzjijs, d ajslfw f qtx vzj wjhngjs yzjwytx, d hfxynlfw
fqjatxífx. Wjhtwwji azjxywf rjrtwnf, d xn mfqqánx fqlzsf htxf ijxyj ofje
vzj jshtrjsifwrj, st mfd xnst ijhnqqf; vzj dt tx uwtrjyt, utw qf twijs ij
hfgfqqjwt vzj wjhjgí, ij kfhjwtx xfynxkjhmt d uflfit f ytif azjxywf
atqzsyfi.

Jq ajsyjwt qj wjxutsinó hts jq rjxrt xtxnjlt:

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, dt st yjslt sjhjxnifi ij vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj ajslzj
snslús flwfant, utwvzj dt xé ytrfw qf ajslfsef vzj rj ufwjhj, hzfsit xj rj
mfhjs. Xóqt mj rjsjxyjw vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj uflzj jq lfxyt vzj jxyf sthmj
mf mjhmt js qf ajsyf, fxí ij qf ufof d hjgfif ij xzx itx gjxynfx, htrt ij
qf hjsf d hfrfx.

-Qzjlt, ¿ajsyf jx éxyf? -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

-D rzd mtswfif -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt.

-Jslfñfit mj ananit mfxyf fvzí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj js ajwifi vzj
ujsxé vzj jwf hfxynqqt, d st rfqt; ujwt, uzjx jx fsxí vzj st jx hfxynqqt
xnst ajsyf, qt vzj xj utiwá mfhjw utw fltwf jx vzj ujwitsénx utw qf uflf,
vzj dt st uzjit htsywfajsnw f qf twijs ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ij qtx
hzfqjx xé hnjwyt, xns vzj mfxyf fmtwf mfdf qjíit htxf js htsywfwnt, vzj
ofráx uflfwts utxfif sn tywf htxf js ajsyf itsij jxyzanjxjs, utwvzj xj qjx
ijgj ij kzjwt d ij ijwjhmt hzfqvznjw gzjs fhtlnrnjsyt vzj xj qjx mnhnjwj,
js uflt ijq nsxzkwngqj ywfgfot vzj ufijhjs gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx ij sthmj
d ij iíf, js nsanjwst d js ajwfst, f unj d f hfgfqqt, hts xji d hts mfrgwj,
hts hfqtw d hts kwít, xzojytx f ytifx qfx nshqjrjshnfx ijq hnjqt d f ytitx
qtx nshórtitx ij qf ynjwwf.

-Utht yjslt dt vzj ajw js jxt -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt-; uálzjxjrj qt vzj xj
rj ijgj, d ijoértstx ij hzjsytx sn ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj dt st yjslt hzjsyf
hts tywf htxf vzj hts htgwfw rn mfhnjsif.

-Atx xtnx zs xfsint d rfq mtxyfqjwt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

D, utsnjsit unjwsfx fq Wthnsfsyj d yjwhnfsit xz qfseós, xj xfqnó ij qf
ajsyf xns vzj sfinj qj ijyzanjxj, d éq, xns rnwfw xn qj xjlzíf xz jxhzijwt,
xj fqtsló zs gzjs ywjhmt.

Jq ajsyjwt, vzj qj ant nw d vzj st qj uflfgf, fhzinó f htgwfw ij Xfshmt
Ufsef, jq hzfq inot vzj, uzjx xz xjñtw st mfgíf vzjwnit uflfw, vzj yfrutht
éq uflfwíf; utwvzj, xnjsit éq jxhzijwt ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, htrt jwf, qf
rjxrf wjlqf d wfeós htwwíf utw éq htrt utw xz frt js st uflfw htxf fqlzsf
js qtx rjxtsjx d ajsyfx. Frtmnsóxj rzhmt ijxyt jq ajsyjwt, d frjsfeóqj vzj
xn st qj uflfgf, vzj qt htgwfwíf ij rtit vzj qj ujxfxj. F qt hzfq Xfshmt
wjxutsinó vzj, utw qf qjd ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj xz frt mfgíf wjhjgnit, st
uflfwíf zs xtqt htwsfit, fzsvzj qj htxyfxj qf anif; utwvzj st mfgíf ij
ujwijw utw éq qf gzjsf d fsynlzf zxfsef ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, sn xj
mfgífs ij vzjofw iéq qtx jxhzijwtx ij qtx yfqjx vzj jxyfgfs utw ajsnw fq
rzsit, wjuwthmásitqj jq vzjgwfsyfrnjsyt ij yfs ozxyt kzjwt.

Vznxt qf rfqf xzjwyj ijq ijxinhmfit Xfshmt vzj, jsywj qf ljsyj vzj jxyfgf
js qf ajsyf, xj mfqqfxjs hzfywt ujwfnqjx ij Xjltanf, ywjx flzojwtx ijq
Utywt ij Hówitgf d itx ajhnstx ij qf Mjwnf ij Xjanqqf, ljsyj fqjlwj, gnjs
nsyjshntsfif, rfqjfsyj d ozlzjytsf, qtx hzfqjx, hfxn htrt nsxynlfitx d
rtanitx ij zs rjxrt jxuíwnyz, xj qqjlfwts f Xfshmt, d, fujásitqj ijq fxst,
zst ijqqtx jsywó utw qf rfsyf ij qf hfrf ijq mzéxuji, d, jhmásitqj js jqqf,
fqefwts qtx totx d anjwts vzj jq yjhmt jwf fqlt ráx gfot ij qt vzj mfgífs
rjsjxyjw ufwf xz tgwf, d ijyjwrnsfwts xfqnwxj fq htwwfq, vzj yjsíf utw
qírnyj jq hnjqt. D fqqí, uzjxyt Xfshmt js rnyfi ij qf rfsyf, htrjsefwts f
qjafsyfwqj js fqyt d f mtqlfwxj hts éq htrt hts ujwwt utw hfwsjxytqjsifx.
Qfx athjx vzj jq ríxjwt rfsyjfit ifgf kzjwts yfsyfx, vzj qqjlfwts f qtx
tíitx ij xz frt; jq hzfq, ijyjwrnsásitxj f jxhzhmfw fyjsyfrjsyj, hwjdó vzj
fqlzsf szjaf fajsyzwf qj ajsíf, mfxyf vzj hqfwfrjsyj htsthnó vzj jq vzj
lwnyfgf jwf xz jxhzijwt; d, atqanjsit qfx wnjsifx, hts zs ujsfit lfqtuj
qqjló f qf ajsyf, d, mfqqásitqf hjwwfif, qf wtijó utw ajw xn mfqqfgf utw
itsij jsywfw; ujwt st mzgt qqjlfit f qfx ufwjijx ijq htwwfq, vzj st jwfs
rzd fqyfx, hzfsit ant jq rfq ozjlt vzj xj qj mfhíf f xz jxhzijwt. Antqj
gfofw d xzgnw utw jq fnwj, hts yfsyf lwfhnf d uwjxyjef vzj, xn qf hóqjwf qj
ijofwf, yjslt ufwf rí vzj xj wnjwf. Uwtgó f xzgnw ijxij jq hfgfqqt f qfx
gfwifx, ujwt jxyfgf yfs rtqnit d vzjgwfsyfit vzj fzs fujfwxj st uzit; d
fxí, ijxij jshnrf ijq hfgfqqt, htrjseó f ijhnw yfsytx ijszjxytx d gfqitsjx
f qtx vzj f Xfshmt rfsyjfgfs, vzj st jx utxngqj fhjwyfw f jxhwngnqqtx; rfx
st utw jxyt hjxfgfs jqqtx ij xz wnxf d ij xz tgwf, sn jq atqfitw Xfshmt
ijofgf xzx vzjofx, rjehqfifx df hts frjsfefx, df hts wzjltx; rfx ytit
fuwtajhmfgf utht, sn fuwtajhmó, mfxyf vzj ij uzwt hfsxfitx qj ijofwts.
Ywzoéwtsqj fqqí xz fxst, d, xzgnésitqj jshnrf, qj fwwtufwts hts xz lfgás. D
qf htrufxnaf ij Rfwnytwsjx, anésitqj yfs kfynlfit, qj ufwjhnó xjw gnjs
xthtwwjqqj hts zs ofwwt ij flzf, d fxí, xj qj ywzot ijq utet, utw xjw ráx
kwít. Ytróqj Xfshmt, d qqjaásitqj f qf gthf, xj ufwó f qfx athjx vzj xz frt
qj ifgf, inhnjsit:

-¡Mnot Xfshmt, st gjgfx flzf! ¡Mnot, st qf gjgfx, vzj yj rfyfwá! ¿Ajx? Fvzí
yjslt jq xfsyíxnrt gáqxfrt -d jsxjñágfqj qf fqhzef ijq gwjgfoj-, vzj hts
itx ltyfx vzj iéq gjgfx xfsfwáx xns izif.

F jxyfx athjx atqanó Xfshmt qtx totx, htrt ij ywfaéx, d inot hts tywfx
rfdtwjx:

-¿Utw inhmf máxjqj tqanifit f azjxywf rjwhji htrt dt st xtd hfgfqqjwt, t
vznjwj vzj fhfgj ij atrnyfw qfx jsywfñfx vzj rj vzjifwts ij fsthmj?
Lzáwijxj xz qnhtw hts ytitx qtx infgqtx d iéojrj f rí.

D jq fhfgfw ij ijhnw jxyt d jq htrjsefw f gjgjw ytit kzj zst; rfx, htrt fq
uwnrjw ywflt ant vzj jwf flzf, st vznxt ufxfw fijqfsyj, d wtló f Rfwnytwsjx
vzj xj qj ywzojxj ij anst, d fxí qt mnet jqqf ij rzd gzjsf atqzsyfi, d qt
ufló ij xz rjxrt insjwt; utwvzj, js jkjhyt, xj inhj ijqqf vzj, fzsvzj
jxyfgf js fvzjq ywfyt, yjsíf zsfx xtrgwfx d qjotx ij hwnxynfsf.

Fxí htrt gjgnó Xfshmt, int ij qtx hfwhfñtx f xz fxst, d, fgwnésitqj qf
uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf ij ufw js ufw, xj xfqnó ijqqf, rzd htsyjsyt ij st mfgjw
uflfit sfif d ij mfgjw xfqnit hts xz nsyjshnós, fzsvzj mfgíf xnit f htxyf
ij xzx fhtxyzrgwfitx knfitwjx, vzj jwfs xzx jxufqifx. Ajwifi jx vzj jq
ajsyjwt xj vzjió hts xzx fqktwofx js uflt ij qt vzj xj qj ijgíf; rfx Xfshmt
st qfx jhmó rjstx, xjlús xfqnó yzwgfit. Vznxt jq ajsyjwt fywfshfw gnjs qf
uzjwyf fxí htrt qj ant kzjwf, rfx st qt htsxnsynjwts qtx rfsyjfitwjx, vzj
jwfs ljsyj vzj, fzsvzj its Vznotyj kzjwf ajwifijwfrjsyj ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx ij qf Yfgqf Wjitsif, st qj jxynrfwfs js itx fwinyjx.





Hfuíyzqt CANNN. Itsij xj hzjsyfs qfx wfetsjx vzj ufxó Xfshmt Ufsef hts xz
xjñtw Its Vznotyj, hts tywfx fajsyzwfx inlsfx ij xjw htsyfifx


Qqjló Xfshmt f xz frt rfwhmnyt d ijxrfdfit; yfsyt, vzj st utiíf fwwjfw f xz
ozrjsyt. Hzfsit fxí qj ant its Vznotyj, qj inot:

-Fmtwf fhfgt ij hwjjw, Xfshmt gzjst, vzj fvzjq hfxynqqt t ajsyf, ij vzj jx
jshfsyfit xns izif; utwvzj fvzjqqtx vzj yfs fywterjsyj ytrfwts ufxfynjrut
htsynlt, ¿vzé utiífs xjw xnst kfsyfxrfx d ljsyj ijq tywt rzsit? D htsknwrt
jxyt utw mfgjw anxyt vzj, hzfsit jxyfgf utw qfx gfwifx ijq htwwfq rnwfsit
qtx fhytx ij yz ywnxyj ywfljinf, st rj kzj utxngqj xzgnw utw jqqfx, sn
rjstx uzij fujfwrj ij Wthnsfsyj, utwvzj rj ijgífs ij yjsjw jshfsyfit; vzj
yj ozwt, utw qf kj ij vznjs xtd, vzj xn uzinjwf xzgnw t fujfwrj, vzj dt yj
mnhnjwf ajslfit ij rfsjwf vzj fvzjqqtx ktqqtsjx d rfqfsiwnsjx xj fhtwifwfs
ij qf gzwqf ufwf xnjruwj, fzsvzj js jqqt xzunjwf htsywfajsnw f qfx qjdjx ij
qf hfgfqqjwíf, vzj, htrt df rzhmfx ajhjx yj mj inhmt, st htsxnjsyjs vzj
hfgfqqjwt utslf rfst htsywf vznjs st qt xjf, xn st kzjwj js ijkjsxf ij xz
uwtuwnf anif d ujwxtsf, js hfxt ij zwljsyj d lwfs sjhjxnifi.

-Yfrgnés rj ajslfwf dt xn uzinjwf, kzjwf t st kzjwf fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, ujwt
st uzij; fzsvzj yjslt ufwf rí vzj fvzjqqtx vzj xj mtqlfwts htsrnlt st jwfs
kfsyfxrfx sn mtrgwjx jshfsyfitx, htrt azjxywf rjwhji inhj, xnst mtrgwjx ij
hfwsj d mzjxt htrt stxtywtx; d ytitx, xjlús qtx tí strgwfw hzfsit rj
atqyjfgfs, yjsífs xzx strgwjx: vzj jq zst xj qqfrfgf Ujiwt Rfwyísje, d jq
tywt Yjstwnt Mjwsásije, d jq ajsyjwt tí vzj xj qqfrfgf Ozfs Ufqtrjvzj jq
Ezwit. Fxí vzj, xjñtw, jq st utijw xfqyfw qfx gfwifx ijq htwwfq, sn fujfwxj
ijq hfgfqqt, js áq jxyzat vzj js jshfsyfrjsytx. D qt vzj dt xfht js qnrunt
ij ytit jxyt jx vzj jxyfx fajsyzwfx vzj fsifrtx gzxhfsit, fq hfgt fq hfgt,
stx mfs ij ywfjw f yfsyfx ijxajsyzwfx vzj st xjufrtx hzáq jx szjxywt unj
ijwjhmt. D qt vzj xjwíf rjotw d ráx fhjwyfit, xjlús rn utht jsyjsinrnjsyt,
kzjwf jq atqajwstx f szjxywt qzlfw, fmtwf vzj jx ynjrut ij qf xnjlf d ij
jsyjsijw js qf mfhnjsif, ijoásitstx ij fsifw ij Hjhf js Rjhf d ij ethf js
htqtiwf, htrt inhjs.

-¡Vzé utht xfgjx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ij fhmfvzj ij hfgfqqjwíf!
Hfqqf d yjs ufhnjshnf, vzj iíf ajsiwá itsij ajfx utw anxyf ij totx hzás
mtswtxf htxf jx fsifw js jxyj jojwhnhnt. Xn st, inrj: ¿vzé rfdtw htsyjsyt
uzjij mfgjw js jq rzsit, t vzé lzxyt uzjij nlzfqfwxj fq ij ajshjw zsf
gfyfqqf d fq ij ywnzskfw ij xz jsjrnlt? Snslzst, xns izif fqlzsf.

-Fxí ijgj ij xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, uzjxyt vzj dt st qt xé; xóqt xé vzj,
ijxuzéx vzj xtrtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, t azjxywf rjwhji qt jx (vzj dt st
mfd ufwf vzé rj hzjsyj js yfs mtswtxt súrjwt), ofráx mjrtx ajshnit gfyfqqf
fqlzsf, xn st kzj qf ijq anehfíst, d fzs ij fvzéqqf xfqnó azjxywf rjwhji
hts rjinf twjof d rjinf hjqfif rjstx; vzj, ijxuzéx fhá, ytit mf xnit ufqtx
d ráx ufqtx, uzñfifx d ráx uzñfifx, qqjafsit dt ij ajsyfof jq rfsyjfrnjsyt
d mfgjwrj xzhjinit utw ujwxtsfx jshfsyfifx, ij vznjs st uzjit ajslfwrj,
ufwf xfgjw mfxyf iósij qqjlf jq lzxyt ijq ajshnrnjsyt ijq jsjrnlt, htrt
azjxywf rjwhji inhj.

-Éxf jx qf ujsf vzj dt yjslt d qf vzj yú ijgjx yjsjw, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj-; ujwt, ij fvzí fijqfsyj, dt uwthzwfwé mfgjw f qfx rfstx fqlzsf
jxufif mjhmf utw yfq rfjxywíf, vzj fq vzj qf ywzojwj htsxnlt st qj uzjifs
mfhjw snslús lésjwt ij jshfsyfrjsytx; d fzs utiwíf xjw vzj rj ijufwfxj qf
ajsyzwf fvzjqqf ij Frfiíx, hzfsit xj qqfrfgf jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Fwinjsyj
Jxufif, vzj kzj zsf ij qfx rjotwjx jxufifx vzj yzat hfgfqqjwt js jq rzsit,
utwvzj, kzjwf vzj yjsíf qf anwyzi inhmf, htwyfgf htrt zsf sfafof, d st
mfgíf fwrfizwf, utw kzjwyj d jshfsyfif vzj kzjxj, vzj xj qj ufwfxj ijqfsyj.
-Dt xtd yfs ajsyzwtxt -inot Xfshmt- vzj, hzfsit jxt kzjxj d azjxywf rjwhji
ansnjxj f mfqqfw jxufif xjrjofsyj, xóqt ajsiwíf f xjwanw d fuwtajhmfw f qtx
fwrfitx hfgfqqjwtx, htrt jq gáqxfrt; d qtx jxhzijwtx, vzj xj qtx ufujs
izjqtx.

-St yjrfx jxt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj rjotw qt mfwá jq hnjqt
htsynlt.

Jx jxytx htqtvzntx ngfs its Vznotyj d xz jxhzijwt, hzfsit ant its Vznotyj
vzj utw jq hfrnst vzj ngfs ajsíf mfhnf jqqtx zsf lwfsij d jxujxf utqafwjif;
d, js anésitqf, xj atqanó f Xfshmt d qj inot:

-Éxyj jx jq iíf, ¡tm Xfshmt!, js jq hzfq xj mf ij ajw jq gnjs vzj rj ynjsj
lzfwifit rn xzjwyj; éxyj jx jq iíf, inlt, js vzj xj mf ij rtxywfw, yfsyt
htrt js tywt fqlzst, jq afqtw ij rn gwfet, d js jq vzj yjslt ij mfhjw tgwfx
vzj vzjijs jxhwnyfx js jq qngwt ij qf Kfrf utw ytitx qtx ajsnijwtx xnlqtx.
¿Ajx fvzjqqf utqafwjif vzj fqqí xj qjafsyf, Xfshmt? Uzjx ytif jx hzfofif ij
zs htuntxíxnrt joéwhnyt vzj ij inajwxfx j nsszrjwfgqjx ljsyjx utw fqqí
anjsj rfwhmfsit.

-F jxf hzjsyf, itx ijgjs ij xjw -inot Xfshmt-, utwvzj ijxyf ufwyj htsywfwnf
xj qjafsyf fxnrjxrt tywf xjrjofsyj utqafwjif.

Atqanó f rnwfwqt its Vznotyj, d ant vzj fxí jwf qf ajwifi; d, fqjlwásitxj
xtgwjrfsjwf, ujsxó, xns izif fqlzsf, vzj jwfs itx joéwhnytx vzj ajsífs f
jrgjxynwxj d f jshtsywfwxj js rnyfi ij fvzjqqf jxufhntxf qqfszwf; utwvzj
yjsíf f ytifx mtwfx d rtrjsytx qqjsf qf kfsyfxíf ij fvzjqqfx gfyfqqfx,
jshfsyfrjsytx, xzhjxtx, ijxfynstx, frtwjx, ijxfkítx, vzj js qtx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx xj hzjsyfs, d ytit hzfsyt mfgqfgf, ujsxfgf t mfhíf jwf
jshfrnsfit f htxfx xjrjofsyjx. D qf utqafwjif vzj mfgíf anxyt qf qjafsyfgfs
itx lwfsijx rfsfifx ij tajofx d hfwsjwtx vzj, utw fvzjq rjxrt hfrnst, ij
itx inkjwjsyjx ufwyjx ajsífs, qfx hzfqjx, hts jq utqat, st xj jhmfwts ij
ajw mfxyf vzj qqjlfwts hjwhf. D hts yfsyt fmísht fknwrfgf its Vznotyj vzj
jwfs joéwhnytx, vzj Xfshmt qt anst f hwjjw d f ijhnwqj:

-Xjñtw, ¿uzjx vzé mjrtx ij mfhjw stxtywtx?

-¿Vzé? -inot its Vznotyj-: kfatwjhjw d fdzifw f qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx d
ijxafqnitx. D mfx ij xfgjw, Xfshmt, vzj jxyj vzj anjsj utw szjxywf kwjsyj
qj htsizhj d lzíf jq lwfsij jrujwfitw Fqnkfskfwós, xjñtw ij qf lwfsij nxqf
Ywfutgfsf; jxyj tywt vzj f rnx jxufqifx rfwhmf jx jq ij xz jsjrnlt, jq wjd
ij qtx lfwfrfsyfx, Ujsyfutqés ijq Fwwjrfslfit Gwfet, utwvzj xnjruwj jsywf
js qfx gfyfqqfx hts jq gwfet ijwjhmt ijxszit.

-Uzjx, ¿utw vzé xj vznjwjs yfs rfq jxytx itx xjñtwjx? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.
-Vznjwésxj rfq -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- utwvzj jxyj Fqjkfskfwós jx zs
ktwngzsit uflfst d jxyá jsfrtwfit ij qf mnof ij Ujsyfutqís, vzj jx zsf rzd
kjwrtxf d fijráx flwfhnfif xjñtwf, d jx hwnxynfsf, d xz ufiwj st xj qf
vznjwj jsywjlfw fq wjd uflfst xn st ijof uwnrjwt qf qjd ij xz kfqxt uwtkjyf
Rfmtrf d xj azjqaj f qf xzdf.

-¡Ufwf rnx gfwgfx -inot Xfshmt-, xn st mfhj rzd gnjs Ujsyfutqís, d vzj qj
yjslt ij fdzifw js hzfsyt uzinjwj!

-Js jxt mfwáx qt vzj ijgjx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj, ufwf jsywfw
js gfyfqqfx xjrjofsyjx, st xj wjvznjwj xjw fwrfit hfgfqqjwt.

-Gnjs xj rj fqhfsef jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt, ¿iósij utsiwjrtx f jxyj
fxst vzj jxyjrtx hnjwytx ij mfqqfwqj ijxuzéx ij ufxfif qf wjkwnjlf? Utwvzj
jq jsywfw js jqqf js xjrjofsyj hfgfqqjwíf st hwjt vzj jxyá js zxt mfxyf
fltwf.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot its Vznotyj-. Qt vzj uzjijx mfhjw iéq jx ijofwqj f xzx
fajsyzwfx, twf xj unjwif t st, utwvzj xjwás yfsytx qtx hfgfqqtx vzj
yjsiwjrtx, ijxuzéx vzj xfqlfrtx ajshjitwjx, vzj fzs htwwj ujqnlwt Wthnsfsyj
st qj ywzjvzj utw tywt. Ujwt jxyárj fyjsyt d rnwf, vzj yj vznjwt ifw hzjsyf
ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx ráx uwnshnufqjx vzj js jxytx itx joéwhnytx anjsjs. D,
ufwf vzj rjotw qtx ajfx d styjx, wjynwértstx f fvzjq fqynqqt vzj fqqí xj
mfhj, ij itsij xj ijgjs ij ijxhzgwnw qtx itx joéwhnytx.

Mnhnéwtsqt fsxí, d uzxnjwósxj xtgwj zsf qtrf, ijxij qf hzfq xj anjwfs gnjs
qfx itx rfsfifx vzj f its Vznotyj xj qj mnhnjwts joéwhnyt, xn qfx szgjx ijq
utqat vzj qjafsyfgfs st qjx yzwgfwf d hjlfwf qf anxyf; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt,
anjsit js xz nrflnsfhnós qt vzj st ajíf sn mfgíf, hts ate qjafsyfif htrjseó
f ijhnw:

-Fvzjq hfgfqqjwt vzj fqqí ajx ij qfx fwrfx ofqijx, vzj ywfj js jq jxhzit zs
qjós htwtsfit, wjsinit f qtx unjx ij zsf itshjqqf, jx jq afqjwtxt
Qfzwhfqht, xjñtw ij qf Uzjsyj ij Uqfyf; jq tywt ij qfx fwrfx ij qfx kqtwjx
ij twt, vzj ywfj js jq jxhzit ywjx htwtsfx ij uqfyf js hfrut fezq, jx jq
yjrnit Rnhthtqjrgt, lwfs izvzj ij Vznwthnf; jq tywt ij qtx rnjrgwtx
lnlfsyjtx, vzj jxyá f xz ijwjhmf rfst, jx jq szshf rjiwtxt Gwfsifgfwgfwás
ij Gtqnhmj, xjñtw ij qfx ywjx Fwfgnfx, vzj anjsj fwrfit ij fvzjq hzjwt ij
xjwunjsyj, d ynjsj utw jxhzit zsf uzjwyf vzj, xjlús jx kfrf, jx zsf ij qfx
ijq yjruqt vzj ijwwngó Xfsxós, hzfsit hts xz rzjwyj xj ajsló ij xzx
jsjrnltx. Ujwt azjqaj qtx totx f jxytywf ufwyj d ajwáx ijqfsyj d js qf
kwjsyj ijxytywt joéwhnyt fq xnjruwj ajshjitw d ofráx ajshnit Ynrtsjq ij
Hfwhfotsf, uwíshnuj ij qf Szjaf Anehfdf, vzj anjsj fwrfit hts qfx fwrfx
ufwynifx f hzfwyjqjx, fezqjx, ajwijx, gqfshfx d frfwnqqfx, d ywfj js jq
jxhzit zs lfyt ij twt js hfrut qjtsfit, hts zsf qjywf vzj inhj: Rnfz, vzj
jx jq uwnshnunt ijq strgwj ij xz ifrf, vzj, xjlús xj inhj, jx qf xns ufw
Rnzqnsf, mnof ijq izvzj Fqkjñnvzés ijq Fqlfwgj; jq tywt, vzj hfwlf d tuwnrj
qtx qtrtx ij fvzjqqf utijwtxf fqkfsf, vzj ywfj qfx fwrfx htrt snjaj gqfshfx
d jq jxhzit gqfsht d xns jruwjxf fqlzsf, jx zs hfgfqqjwt stajq, ij sfhnós
kwfshéx, qqfrfit Unjwwjx Ufuís, xjñtw ij qfx gfwtsífx ij Zywnvzj; jq tywt,
vzj gfyj qfx nofifx hts qtx mjwwfitx hfwhfñtx f fvzjqqf unsyfif d qnljwf
hjgwf, d ywfj qfx fwrfx ij qtx ajwtx fezqjx, jx jq utijwtxt izvzj ij
Sjwgnf, Jxufwyfknqfwit ijq Gtxvzj, vzj ywfj utw jruwjxf js jq jxhzit zsf
jxufwwflzjwf, hts zsf qjywf js hfxyjqqfst vzj inhj fxí: Wfxywjf rn xzjwyj.
D ijxyf rfsjwf kzj strgwfsit rzhmtx hfgfqqjwtx ijq zst d ijq tywt
jxhzfiwós, vzj éq xj nrflnsfgf, d f ytitx qjx int xzx fwrfx, htqtwjx,
jruwjxfx d rtyjx ij nruwtanxt, qqjafit ij qf nrflnsfhnós ij xz szshf anxyf
qthzwf; d, xns ufwfw, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-F jxyj jxhzfiwós kwtsyjwt ktwrfs d mfhjs ljsyjx ij inajwxfx sfhntsjx: fvzí
jxyás qtx vzj gjgífs qfx izqhjx flzfx ijq kfrtxt Ofsyt; qtx rtsyztxtx vzj
unxfs qtx rfxíqnhtx hfrutx; qtx vzj hwngfs jq knsíxnrt d rjszit twt js qf
kjqnhj Fwfgnf; qtx vzj ltefs qfx kfrtxfx d kwjxhfx wngjwfx ijq hqfwt
Yjwrtitsyj; qtx vzj xfslwfs utw rzhmfx d inajwxfx aífx fq itwfit Ufhytqt;
qtx súrnifx, izitxtx js xzx uwtrjxfx; qtx ujwxfx, fwhtx d kqjhmfx kfrtxtx;
qtx ufwytx, qtx rjitx, vzj ujqjfs mzdjsit; qtx áwfgjx, ij rzifgqjx hfxfx;
qtx hnyfx, yfs hwzjqjx htrt gqfshtx; qtx jyntujx, ij mtwfifitx qfgntx, d
tywfx nsknsnyfx sfhntsjx, hzdtx wtxywtx htsteht d ajt, fzsvzj ij qtx
strgwjx st rj fhzjwit. Js jxytywt jxhzfiwós anjsjs qtx vzj gjgjs qfx
htwwnjsyjx hwnxyfqnsfx ijq tqnaíkjwt Gjynx; qtx vzj yjwxfs d uzqjs xzx
wtxywtx hts jq qnhtw ijq xnjruwj wnht d itwfit Yfot; qtx vzj ltefs qfx
uwtajhmtxfx flzfx ijq inanst Ljsnq; qtx vzj unxfs qtx yfwyjxntx hfrutx, ij
ufxytx fgzsifsyjx; qtx vzj xj fqjlwfs js qtx jqíxjtx ojwjefstx uwfitx; qtx
rfshmjltx, wnhtx d htwtsfitx ij wzgnfx jxunlfx; qtx ij mnjwwt ajxynitx,
wjqnvznfx fsynlzfx ij qf xfslwj ltif; qtx vzj js Unxzjwlf xj gfñfs, kfrtxt
utw qf rfsxjizrgwj ij xz htwwnjsyj; qtx vzj xz lfsfit fufhnjsyfs js qfx
jxyjsinifx ijmjxfx ijq ytwyztxt Lzfinfsf, hjqjgwfit utw xz jxhtsinit hzwxt;
qtx vzj ynjrgqfs hts jq kwít ijq xnqatxt Unwnsjt d hts qtx gqfshtx htutx
ijq qjafsyfit Fujsnst; knsfqrjsyj, hzfsytx ytif qf Jzwtuf js xí htsynjsj d
jshnjwwf.

¡Aáqfrj Intx, d hzásyfx uwtanshnfx inot, hzásyfx sfhntsjx strgwó, iásitqj f
hfif zsf, hts rfwfanqqtxf uwjxyjef, qtx fywngzytx vzj qj ujwyjsjhífs, ytit
fgxtwyt d jrufufit js qt vzj mfgíf qjíit js xzx qngwtx rjsynwtxtx!
Jxyfgf Xfshmt Ufsef htqlfit ij xzx ufqfgwfx, xns mfgqfw snslzsf, d, ij
hzfsit js hzfsit, atqaíf qf hfgjef f ajw xn ajíf qtx hfgfqqjwtx d lnlfsyjx
vzj xz frt strgwfgf; d, htrt st ijxhzgwíf f snslzst, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, jshtrnjsit fq infgqt mtrgwj, sn lnlfsyj, sn hfgfqqjwt ij hzfsytx
azjxywf rjwhji inhj ufwjhj utw ytit jxyt; f qt rjstx, dt st qtx ajt; vzneá
ytit ijgj xjw jshfsyfrjsyt, htrt qfx kfsyfxrfx ij fsthmj.

-¿Hórt inhjx jxt? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. ¿St tdjx jq wjqnshmfw ij qtx
hfgfqqtx, jq ythfw ij qtx hqfwnsjx, jq wznit ij qtx fyfrgtwjx?

-St tnlt tywf htxf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- xnst rzhmtx gfqnitx ij tajofx d
hfwsjwtx.

D fxí jwf qf ajwifi, utwvzj df qqjlfgfs hjwhf qtx itx wjgfñtx.

-Jq rnjit vzj ynjsjx -inot its Vznotyj- yj mfhj, Xfshmt, vzj sn ajfx sn
tdfx f ijwjhmfx; utwvzj zst ij qtx jkjhytx ijq rnjit jx yzwgfw qtx xjsynitx
d mfhjw vzj qfx htxfx st ufwjehfs qt vzj xts; d xn jx vzj yfsyt yjrjx,
wjyíwfyj f zsf ufwyj d iéofrj xtqt, vzj xtqt gfxyt f ifw qf anhytwnf f qf
ufwyj f vznjs dt injwj rn fdzif.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, uzxt qfx jxuzjqfx f Wthnsfsyj, d, uzjxyf qf qfsef js jq
wnxywj, gfoó ij qf htxyjezjqf htrt zs wfdt. Intqj athjx Xfshmt, inhnésitqj:
-¡Azéqafxj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj atyt f Intx vzj xts
hfwsjwtx d tajofx qfx vzj af f jrgjxynw! ¡Azéqafxj, ijxinhmfit ijq ufiwj
vzj rj jsljsiwó! ¿Vzé qthzwf jx éxyf? Rnwj vzj st mfd lnlfsyj sn hfgfqqjwt
fqlzst, sn lfytx, sn fwrfx, sn jxhzitx ufwynitx sn jsyjwtx, sn ajwtx fezqjx
sn jsinfgqfitx. ¿Vzé jx qt vzj mfhj? ¡Ujhfitw xtd dt f Intx!

Sn utw éxfx atqanó its Vznotyj; fsyjx, js fqyfx athjx, ngf inhnjsit:
-¡Jf, hfgfqqjwtx, qtx vzj xjlzíx d rnqnyánx ijgfot ij qfx gfsijwfx ijq
afqjwtxt jrujwfitw Ujsyfutqís ijq Fwwjrfslfit Gwfet, xjlznirj ytitx: ajwénx
hzás káhnqrjsyj qj itd ajslfsef ij xz jsjrnlt Fqjkfskfwós ij qf Ywfutgfsf!
Jxyt inhnjsit, xj jsywó utw rjint ijq jxhzfiwós ij qfx tajofx, d htrjseó ij
fqfshjfqqfx hts yfsyt htwfoj d ijszjit htrt xn ij ajwfx fqfshjfwf f xzx
rtwyfqjx jsjrnltx. Qtx ufxytwjx d lfsfijwtx vzj hts qf rfsfif ajsífs
iágfsqj athjx vzj st mnhnjxj fvzjqqt; ujwt, anjsit vzj st fuwtajhmfgfs,
ijxhnñéwtsxj qfx mtsifx d htrjsefwts f xfqzifqqj qtx tíitx hts unjiwfx htrt
jq uzñt. Its Vznotyj st xj hzwfgf ij qfx unjiwfx; fsyjx, inxhzwwnjsit f
ytifx ufwyjx, ijhíf:

-¿Fiósij jxyáx, xtgjwgnt Fqnkfskzós? Ajsyj f rí; vzj zs hfgfqqjwt xtqt xtd,
vzj ijxjf, ij xtqt f xtqt, uwtgfw yzx kzjwefx d vznyfwyj qf anif, js ujsf
ij qf vzj ifx fq afqjwtxt Ujsyfutqís Lfwfrfsyf.

Qqjló js jxyt zsf ujqfinqqf ij fwwtdt, d, iásitqj js zs qfit, qj xjuzqyó
itx htxynqqfx js jq hzjwut. Anésitxj yfs rfqywjhmt, hwjdó xns izif vzj
jxyfgf rzjwyt t rfqkjwnit, d, fhtwiásitxj ij xz qnhtw, xfhó xz fqhzef d
uúxtxjqf f qf gthf, d htrjseó f jhmfw qnhtw js jq jxyórflt; rfx, fsyjx vzj
fhfgfxj ij jsafxfw qt vzj f éq qj ufwjhíf vzj jwf gfxyfsyj, qqjló tywf
fqrjsiwf d intqj js qf rfst d js jq fqhzef yfs ij qqjst vzj xj qf mnet
ujifetx, qqjaásitqj ij hfrnst ywjx t hzfywt injsyjx d rzjqfx ij qf gthf, d
rfhmzhásitqj rfqfrjsyj itx ijitx ij qf rfst.

Yfq kzj jq ltquj uwnrjwt, d yfq jq xjlzsit, vzj qj kzj ktwetxt fq utgwj
hfgfqqjwt ifw htsxnlt ijq hfgfqqt fgfot. Qqjláwtsxj f éq qtx ufxytwjx d
hwjdjwts vzj qj mfgífs rzjwyt; d fxí, hts rzhmf uwnjxf, wjhtlnjwts xz
lfsfit, d hfwlfwts ij qfx wjxjx rzjwyfx, vzj ufxfgfs ij xnjyj, d, xns
fajwnlzfw tywf htxf, xj kzjwts.

Jxyágfxj ytit jxyj ynjrut Xfshmt xtgwj qf hzjxyf, rnwfsit qfx qthzwfx vzj
xz frt mfhíf, d fwwfshágfxj qfx gfwgfx, rfqinhnjsit qf mtwf d jq uzsyt js
vzj qf ktwyzsf xj qj mfgíf ifit f htsthjw. Anésitqj, uzjx, hfíit js jq
xzjqt, d vzj df qtx ufxytwjx xj mfgífs nit, gfoó ij qf hzjxyf d qqjlóxj f
éq, d mfqqóqj ij rzd rfq fwyj, fzsvzj st mfgíf ujwinit jq xjsynit, d
iíotqj:

-¿St qj ijhíf dt, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj xj atqanjxj, vzj qtx vzj ngf f
fhtrjyjw st jwfs joéwhnytx, xnst rfsfifx ij hfwsjwtx?

-Htrt jxt uzjij ijxufwjhjw d htsywfmfhjw fvzjq qfiwós ijq xfgnt rn jsjrnlt.
Xágjyj, Xfshmt, vzj jx rzd káhnq htxf f qtx yfqjx mfhjwstx ufwjhjw qt vzj
vznjwjs, d jxyj rfqnlst vzj rj ujwxnlzj, jsanintxt ij qf lqtwnf vzj ant vzj
dt mfgíf ij fqhfsefw ijxyf gfyfqqf, mf azjqyt qtx jxhzfiwtsjx ij jsjrnltx
js rfsfifx ij tajofx. Xn st, mfe zsf htxf, Xfshmt, utw rn anif, utwvzj yj
ijxjslfñjx d ajfx xjw ajwifi qt vzj yj inlt: xzgj js yz fxst d xílzjqtx
gtsnyfrjsyj, d ajwáx hórt, js fqjoásitxj ij fvzí fqlús utht, xj azjqajs js
xz xjw uwnrjwt, d, ijofsit ij xjw hfwsjwtx, xts mtrgwjx mjhmtx d ijwjhmtx,
htrt dt yj qtx unsyé uwnrjwt... Ujwt st afdfx fltwf, vzj mj rjsjxyjw yz
kfatw d fdzif; qqélfyj f rí d rnwf hzásyfx rzjqfx d injsyjx rj kfqyfs, vzj
rj ufwjhj vzj st rj mf vzjifit snslzst js qf gthf.

Qqjlóxj Xfshmt yfs hjwhf vzj hfxn qj rjyíf qtx totx js qf gthf, d kzj f
ynjrut vzj df mfgíf tgwfit jq gáqxfrt js jq jxyórflt ij its Vznotyj; d, fq
ynjrut vzj Xfshmt qqjló f rnwfwqj qf gthf, fwwtoó ij xí, ráx wjhnt vzj zsf
jxhtujyf, hzfsyt ijsywt yjsíf, d int hts ytit jqqt js qfx gfwgfx ijq
htrufxnat jxhzijwt.

-¡Xfsyf Rfwíf! -inot Xfshmt-, ¿d vzé jx jxyt vzj rj mf xzhjinit? Xns izif,
jxyj ujhfitw jxyá mjwnit ij rzjwyj, uzjx atrnyf xfslwj utw qf gthf.
Ujwt, wjufwfsit zs utht ráx js jqqt, jhmó ij ajw js qf htqtw, xfgtw d tqtw,
vzj st jwf xfslwj, xnst jq gáqxfrt ij qf fqhzef vzj éq qj mfgíf anxyt
gjgjw; d kzj yfsyt jq fxht vzj ytró vzj, wjatqanésitxjqj jq jxyórflt,
atrnyó qfx ywnufx xtgwj xz rnxrt xjñtw, d vzjifwts jsywfrgtx htrt ij
ujwqfx. Fhzinó Xfshmt f xz fxst ufwf xfhfw ij qfx fqktwofx hts vzé
qnrunfwxj d hts vzé hzwfw f xz frt; d, htrt st qfx mfqqó, jxyzat f uzsyt ij
ujwijw jq oznhnt. Rfqiíotxj ij szjat, d uwtuzxt js xz htwfeós ij ijofw f xz
frt d atqajwxj f xz ynjwwf, fzsvzj ujwinjxj jq xfqfwnt ij qt xjwanit d qfx
jxujwfsefx ijq ltgnjwst ij qf uwtrjynif ísxzqf.

Qjafsyóxj js jxyt its Vznotyj, d, uzjxyf qf rfst nevznjwif js qf gthf,
utwvzj st xj qj fhfgfxjs ij xfqnw qtx injsyjx, fxnó hts qf tywf qfx wnjsifx
ij Wthnsfsyj, vzj szshf xj mfgíf rtanit ij ozsyt f xz frt -yfq jwf ij qjfq
d gnjs fhtsinhntsfit-, d kzjxj fitsij xz jxhzijwt jxyfgf, ij ujhmtx xtgwj
xz fxst, hts qf rfst js qf rjonqqf, js lznxf ij mtrgwj ujsxfynat fijráx. D,
anésitqj its Vznotyj ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf, hts rzjxywfx ij yfsyf ywnxyjef, qj
inot:

-Xágjyj, Xfshmt, vzj st jx zs mtrgwj ráx vzj tywt xn st mfhj ráx vzj tywt.
Ytifx jxyfx gtwwfxhfx vzj stx xzhjijs xts xjñfqjx ij vzj uwjxyt mf ij
xjwjsfw jq ynjrut d mfs ij xzhjijwstx gnjs qfx htxfx; utwvzj st jx utxngqj
vzj jq rfq sn jq gnjs xjfs izwfgqjx, d ij fvzí xj xnlzj vzj, mfgnjsit
izwfit rzhmt jq rfq, jq gnjs jxyá df hjwhf. Fxí vzj, st ijgjx htsltofwyj
utw qfx ijxlwfhnfx vzj f rí rj xzhjijs, uzjx f yn st yj hfgj ufwyj ijqqfx.
-¿Hórt st? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Utw ajsyzwf, jq vzj fdjw rfsyjfwts, ¿jwf
tywt vzj jq mnot ij rn ufiwj? D qfx fqktwofx vzj mtd rj kfqyfs, hts ytifx
rnx fqmfofx, ¿xts ij tywt vzj ijq rnxrt?

-¿Vzj yj kfqyfs qfx fqktwofx, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Xí vzj rj kfqyfs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Ijxj rtit, st yjsjrtx vzé htrjw mtd -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

-Jxt kzjwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- hzfsit kfqyfwfs utw jxytx uwfitx qfx djwgfx
vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj vzj htsthj, hts vzj xzjqjs xzuqnw xjrjofsyjx kfqyfx
qtx yfs rfqfajsyzwfitx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx htrt azjxywf rjwhji jx.
-Hts ytit jxt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ytrfwf dt fmtwf ráx físf zs hzfwyfq
ij ufs, t zsf mtlfef d itx hfgjefx ij xfwinsfx fwjsvzjx, vzj hzfsyfx djwgfx
ijxhwngj Intxhównijx, fzsvzj kzjwf jq nqzxywfit utw jq ithytw Qflzsf. Rfx,
hts ytit jxyt, xzgj js yz ozrjsyt, Xfshmt jq gzjst, d ajsyj ywfx rí; vzj
Intx, vzj jx uwtajjitw ij ytifx qfx htxfx, st stx mf ij kfqyfw, d ráx
fsifsit yfs js xz xjwanhnt htrt fsifrtx, uzjx st kfqyf f qtx rtxvznytx ijq
fnwj, sn f qtx lzxfsnqqtx ij qf ynjwwf, sn f qtx wjsfhzfotx ijq flzf; d jx
yfs unfitxt vzj mfhj xfqnw xz xtq xtgwj qtx gzjstx d qtx rfqtx, d qqzjaj
xtgwj qtx nsozxytx d ozxytx.

-Ráx gzjst jwf azjxywf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt- ufwf uwjinhfitw vzj ufwf
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj.

-Ij ytit xfgífs d mfs ij xfgjw qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, Xfshmt -inot its
Vznotyj-, utwvzj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mzgt js qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx vzj fxí xj
ufwfgf f mfhjw zs xjwrós t uqáynhf, js rnyfi ij zs hfrut wjfq, htrt xn
kzjwf lwfizfit utw qf Zsnajwxnifi ij Ufwíx; ij itsij xj nsknjwj vzj szshf
qf qfsef jrgtyó qf uqzrf, sn qf uqzrf qf qfsef.

-Fmtwf gnjs, xjf fxí htrt azjxywf rjwhji inhj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, afrtx
fmtwf ij fvzí, d uwthzwjrtx itsij fqtofw jxyf sthmj, d vznjwf Intx vzj xjf
js ufwyj itsij st mfdf rfsyfx, sn rfsyjfitwjx, sn kfsyfxrfx, sn rtwtx
jshfsyfitx; vzj xn qtx mfd, ifwé fq infgqt jq mfyt d jq lfwfgfyt.
-Uíijxjqt yú f Intx, mnot -inot its Vznotyj-, d lzíf yú utw itsij
vznxnjwjx, vzj jxyf aje vznjwt ijofw f yz jqjhnós jq fqtofwstx. Ujwt ifrj
fhá qf rfst d fynésyfrj hts jq ijit, d rnwf gnjs hzásytx injsyjx d rzjqfx
rj kfqyfs ijxyj qfit ijwjhmt ij qf vznofif fqyf, vzj fqqí xnjsyt jq itqtw.
Rjynó Xfshmt qtx ijitx, d, jxyásitqj yjsyfsit, qj inot:

-¿Hzásyfx rzjqfx xtqíf azjxywf rjwhji yjsjw js jxyf ufwyj?

-Hzfywt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, kzjwf ij qf htwifq, ytifx jsyjwfx d rzd
xfsfx.

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji gnjs qt vzj inhj, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Inlt hzfywt, xn st jwfs hnsht -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj js ytif rn
anif rj mfs xfhfit injsyj sn rzjqf ij qf gthf, sn xj rj mf hfíit sn htrnit
ij sjlznoós sn ij wjzrf fqlzsf.

-Uzjx js jxyf ufwyj ij fgfot -inot Xfshmt- st ynjsj azjxywf rjwhji ráx ij
itx rzjqfx d rjinf, d js qf ij fwwngf, sn rjinf sn snslzsf, vzj ytif jxyá
wfxf htrt qf ufqrf ij qf rfst.

-¡Xns ajsyzwf dt! -inot its Vznotyj, tdjsit qfx ywnxyjx szjafx vzj xz
jxhzijwt qj ifgf-, vzj ráx vznxnjwf vzj rj mzgnjwfs ijwwngfit zs gwfet,
htrt st kzjwf jq ij qf jxufif; utwvzj yj mflt xfgjw, Xfshmt, vzj qf gthf
xns rzjqfx jx htrt rtqnst xns unjiwf, d js rzhmt ráx xj mf ij jxynrfw zs
injsyj vzj zs infrfsyj. Rfx f ytit jxyt jxyfrtx xzojytx qtx vzj uwtkjxfrtx
qf jxywjhmf twijs ij qf hfgfqqjwíf. Xzgj, frnlt, d lzíf, vzj dt yj xjlznwé
fq ufxt vzj vznxnjwjx.

Míetqt fxí Xfshmt, d jshfrnsóxj mfhnf itsij qj ufwjhnó vzj utiíf mfqqfw
fhtlnrnjsyt, xns xfqnw ijq hfrnst wjfq, vzj utw fqqí ngf rzd xjlznit.
Désitxj, uzjx, utht f utht, utwvzj jq itqtw ij qfx vznofifx ij its Vznotyj
st qj ijofgf xtxjlfw sn fyjsijw f ifwxj uwnjxf, vznxt Xfshmt jsywjyjsjqqj d
inajwynqqj inhnésitqj fqlzsf htxf; d, jsywj tywfx vzj qj inot, kzj qt vzj
xj inwá js jq xnlznjsyj hfuíyzqt.





Hfuíyzqt CNC. Ij qfx inxhwjyfx wfetsjx vzj Xfshmt ufxfgf hts xz frt, d ij
qf fajsyzwf vzj qj xzhjinó hts zs hzjwut rzjwyt, hts tywtx fhtsyjhnrnjsytx
kfrtxtx


-Ufwéhjrj, xjñtw rít, vzj ytifx jxyfx ijxajsyzwfx vzj jxytx iífx stx mfs
xzhjinit, xns izif fqlzsf mfs xnit ujsf ijq ujhfit htrjynit utw azjxywf
rjwhji htsywf qf twijs ij xz hfgfqqjwíf, st mfgnjsit hzruqnit jq ozwfrjsyt
vzj mnet ij st htrjw ufs f rfsyjqjx sn hts qf wjnsf ktqlfw, hts ytit
fvzjqqt vzj f jxyt xj xnlzj d azjxywf rjwhji ozwó ij hzruqnw, mfxyf vznyfw
fvzjq fqrjyj ij Rfqfsiwnst, t htrt xj qqfrf jq rtwt, vzj st rj fhzjwit
gnjs.

-Ynjsjx rzhmf wfeós, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-; rfx, ufwf ijhnwyj ajwifi,
jqqt xj rj mfgíf ufxfit ij qf rjrtwnf; d yfrgnés uzjijx yjsjw utw hnjwyt
vzj utw qf hzquf ij st mfgéwrjqt yú fhtwifit js ynjrut yj xzhjinó fvzjqqt
ij qf rfsyf; ujwt dt mfwé qf jsrnjsif, vzj rtitx mfd ij htrutxnhnós js qf
twijs ij qf hfgfqqjwíf ufwf ytit.

-Uzjx, ¿ozwé dt fqlt, utw inhmf? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-St nrutwyf vzj st mfdfx ozwfit -inot its Vznotyj-: gfxyf vzj dt jsynjsit
vzj ij ufwynhnufsyjx st jxyáx rzd xjlzwt, d, utw xí t utw st, st xjwá rfqt
uwtajjwstx ij wjrjint.

-Uzjx xn jqqt jx fxí -inot Xfshmt-, rnwj azjxywf rjwhji st xj qj ytwsj f
tqanifw jxyt, htrt qt ijq ozwfrjsyt; vzneá qjx atqajwá qf lfsf f qfx
kfsyfxrfx ij xtqfefwxj tywf aje htsrnlt, d fzs hts azjxywf rjwhji xn qj ajs
yfs ujwynsfe.

Js jxyfx d tywfx uqáynhfx qjx ytró qf sthmj js rnyfi ijq hfrnst, xns yjsjw
sn ijxhzgwnw itsij fvzjqqf sthmj xj wjhtlnjxjs; d qt vzj st mfgíf ij gzjst
js jqqt jwf vzj ujwjhífs ij mfrgwj; vzj, hts qf kfqyf ij qfx fqktwofx, qjx
kfqyó ytif qf ijxujsxf d rfyfqtyfoj. D, ufwf fhfgfw ij htsknwrfw jxyf
ijxlwfhnf, qjx xzhjinó zsf fajsyzwf vzj, xns fwynknhnt fqlzst,
ajwifijwfrjsyj qt ufwjhíf. D kzj vzj qf sthmj hjwwó hts fqlzsf jxhzwnifi;
ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, hfrnsfgfs, hwjdjsit Xfshmt vzj, uzjx fvzjq hfrnst jwf
wjfq, f zsf t itx qjlzfx, ij gzjsf wfeós, mfqqfwíf js éq fqlzsf ajsyf.
Djsit, uzjx, ijxyf rfsjwf, qf sthmj jxhzwf, jq jxhzijwt mfrgwnjsyt d jq frt
hts lfsf ij htrjw, anjwts vzj utw jq rjxrt hfrnst vzj ngfs ajsífs mfhnf
jqqtx lwfs rzqynyzi ij qzrgwjx, vzj st ufwjhífs xnst jxywjqqfx vzj xj
rtaífs. Ufxróxj Xfshmt js anésitqfx, d its Vznotyj st qfx yzat ytifx
htsxnlt; ynwó jq zst ijq hfgjxywt f xz fxst, d jq tywt ij qfx wnjsifx f xz
wthnst, d jxyzanjwts vzjitx, rnwfsit fyjsyfrjsyj qt vzj utiíf xjw fvzjqqt,
d anjwts vzj qfx qzrgwjx xj ngfs fhjwhfsit f jqqtx, d rnjsywfx ráx xj
qqjlfgfs, rfdtwjx ufwjhífs; f hzdf anxyf Xfshmt htrjseó f yjrgqfw htrt zs
fetlfit, d qtx hfgjqqtx ij qf hfgjef xj qj jwnefwts f its Vznotyj; jq hzfq,
fsnrásitxj zs utht, inot:

-Éxyf, xns izif, Xfshmt, ijgj ij xjw lwfsiíxnrf d ujqnlwtxíxnrf fajsyzwf,
itsij xjwá sjhjxfwnt vzj dt rzjxywj ytit rn afqtw d jxkzjwet.
-¡Ijxinhmfit ij rí! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; xn fhfxt jxyf fajsyzwf kzjxj ij
kfsyfxrfx, htrt rj qt af ufwjhnjsit, ¿fiósij mfgwá htxynqqfx vzj qf xzkwfs?
-Utw ráx kfsyfxrfx vzj xjfs -inot its Vznotyj-, st htsxjsynwé dt vzj yj
ytvzj js jq ujqt ij qf wtuf; vzj xn qf tywf aje xj gzwqfwts htsynlt, kzj
utwvzj st uzij dt xfqyfw qfx ufwjijx ijq htwwfq, ujwt fmtwf jxyfrtx js
hfrut wfxt, itsij utiwé dt htrt vznxnjwj jxlwjrnw rn jxufif.

-D xn qj jshfsyfs d jsytrjhjs, htrt qf tywf aje qt mnhnjwts -inot Xfshmt-,
¿vzé fuwtajhmfwá jxyfw js hfrut fgnjwyt t st?

-Hts ytit jxt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, yj wzjlt, Xfshmt, vzj yjslfx gzjs
ásnrt, vzj qf jcujwnjshnf yj ifwá f jsyjsijw jq vzj dt yjslt.

-Xí yjsiwé, xn f Intx uqfhj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

D, fufwyásitxj qtx itx f zs qfit ijq hfrnst, ytwsfwts f rnwfw fyjsyfrjsyj
qt vzj fvzjqqt ij fvzjqqfx qzrgwjx vzj hfrnsfgfs utiíf xjw; d ij fqqí f rzd
utht ijxhzgwnjwts rzhmtx jshfrnxfitx, hzdf yjrjwtxf anxnós ij ytit uzsyt
wjrfyó jq ásnrt ij Xfshmt Ufsef, jq hzfq htrjseó f ifw injsyj hts injsyj,
htrt vznjs ynjsj kwít ij hzfwyfsf; d hwjhnó ráx jq gfynw d ijsyjqqjfw
hzfsit inxynsyfrjsyj anjwts qt vzj jwf, utwvzj ijxhzgwnjwts mfxyf ajnsyj
jshfrnxfitx, ytitx f hfgfqqt, hts xzx mfhmfx jshjsinifx js qfx rfstx;
ijywáx ij qtx hzfqjx ajsíf zsf qnyjwf hzgnjwyf ij qzyt, f qf hzfq xjlzífs
tywtx xjnx ij f hfgfqqt, jsqzyfitx mfxyf qtx unjx ij qfx rzqfx; vzj gnjs
anjwts vzj st jwfs hfgfqqtx js jq xtxnjlt hts vzj hfrnsfgfs. Ngfs qtx
jshfrnxfitx rzwrzwfsit jsywj xí, hts zsf ate gfof d htrufxnaf. Jxyf jxywfñf
anxnós, f yfqjx mtwfx d js yfq ijxutgqfit, gnjs gfxyfgf ufwf utsjw rnjit js
jq htwfeós ij Xfshmt, d fzs js jq ij xz frt; d fxí kzjwf js hzfsyt f its
Vznotyj, vzj df Xfshmt mfgíf ifit fq ywfaéx hts ytit xz jxkzjwet. Qt
htsywfwnt qj fanst f xz frt, fq hzfq js fvzjq uzsyt xj qj wjuwjxjsyó js xz
nrflnsfhnós fq anat vzj fvzéqqf jwf zsf ij qfx fajsyzwfx ij xzx qngwtx.
Knlzwóxjqj vzj qf qnyjwf jwfs fsifx itsij ijgíf ij nw fqlús rfq kjwnit t
rzjwyt hfgfqqjwt, hzdf ajslfsef f éq xtqt jxyfgf wjxjwafif; d, xns mfhjw
tywt inxhzwxt, jswnxywó xz qfseós, uúxtxj gnjs js qf xnqqf, d hts ljsynq
gwít d htsynsjsyj xj uzxt js qf rnyfi ijq hfrnst utw itsij qtx jshfrnxfitx
ktwetxfrjsyj mfgífs ij ufxfw, d hzfsit qtx ant hjwhf fqeó qf ate d inot:
-Ijyjsjtx, hfgfqqjwtx, t vznjsvznjwf vzj xjánx, d ifirj hzjsyf ij vznés
xtnx, ij iósij ajsíx, fiósij afnx, vzé jx qt vzj js fvzjqqfx fsifx qqjaánx;
vzj, xjlús qfx rzjxywfx, t atxtywtx mfgénx kjhmt, t atx mfs kjhmt, fqlús
ijxflznxfit, d htsanjsj d jx rjsjxyjw vzj dt qt xjuf, t gnjs ufwf
hfxynlfwtx ijq rfq vzj kjhnxyjx, t gnjs ufwf ajslfwtx ijq yzjwyt vzj atx
knhnjwts.

-Afrtx ij uwnjxf -wjxutsinó zst ij qtx jshfrnxfitx- d jxyá qf ajsyf qjotx,
d st stx utijrtx ijyjsjw f ifw yfsyf hzjsyf htrt ujiíx.

D, unhfsit qf rzqf, ufxó fijqfsyj. Xnsynóxj ijxyf wjxuzjxyf lwfsijrjsyj its
Vznotyj, d, ywfgfsit ijq kwjst, inot:

-Ijyjsjtx d xji ráx gnjs hwnfit, d ifirj hzjsyf ij qt vzj tx mj uwjlzsyfit;
xn st, htsrnlt xtnx ytitx js gfyfqqf.

Jwf qf rzqf fxtrgwfinef, d fq ytrfwqf ijq kwjst xj jxufsyó ij rfsjwf vzj,
fqeásitxj js qtx unjx, int hts xz izjñt utw qfx fshfx js jq xzjqt. Zs rtet
vzj ngf f unj, anjsit hfjw fq jshfrnxfit, htrjseó f ijstxyfw f its Vznotyj,
jq hzfq, df jshtqjwnefit, xns jxujwfw ráx, jswnxywfsit xz qfseós, fwwjrjynó
f zst ij qtx jsqzyfitx, d, rfq kjwnit, int hts éq js ynjwwf; d,
wjatqanésitxj utw qtx ijráx, jwf htxf ij ajw hts qf uwjxyjef vzj qtx
fhtrjyíf d ijxgfwfyfgf; vzj st ufwjhíf xnst vzj js fvzjq nsxyfsyj qj mfgífs
sfhnit fqfx f Wthnsfsyj, xjlús fsifgf ij qnljwt d twlzqqtxt.

Ytitx qtx jshfrnxfitx jwf ljsyj rjiwtxf d xns fwrfx, d fxí, hts kfhnqnifi,
js zs rtrjsyt ijofwts qf wjkwnjlf d htrjsefwts f htwwjw utw fvzjq hfrut hts
qfx mfhmfx jshjsinifx, vzj st ufwjhífs xnst f qtx ij qfx ráxhfwfx vzj js
sthmj ij wjlthnot d knjxyf htwwjs. Qtx jsqzyfitx, fxnrjxrt, wjazjqytx d
jsazjqytx js xzx kfqifrjsytx d qtgfx, st xj utiífs rtajw; fxí vzj, rzd f xz
xfqat, its Vznotyj qtx fufqjó f ytitx d qjx mnet ijofw jq xnynt rfq ij xz
lwfit, utwvzj ytitx ujsxfwts vzj fvzéq st jwf mtrgwj, xnst infgqt ijq
nsknjwst vzj qjx xfqíf f vznyfw jq hzjwut rzjwyt vzj js qf qnyjwf qqjafgfs.
Ytit qt rnwfgf Xfshmt, firnwfit ijq fwinrnjsyt ij xz xjñtw, d ijhíf jsywj
xí:

-Xns izif jxyj rn frt jx yfs afqnjsyj d jxktwefit htrt éq inhj.

Jxyfgf zsf mfhmf fwinjsit js jq xzjqt, ozsyt fq uwnrjwt vzj ijwwngó qf
rzqf, f hzdf qze qj uzit ajw its Vznotyj; d, qqjlásitxj f éq, qj uzxt qf
uzsyf ijq qfseós js jq wtxywt, inhnésitqj vzj xj wnsinjxj; xn st, vzj qj
rfyfwíf. F qt hzfq wjxutsinó jq hfíit:

-Mfwyt wjsinit jxytd, uzjx st rj uzjit rtajw, vzj yjslt zsf unjwsf
vzjgwfif; xzuqnht f azjxywf rjwhji, xn jx hfgfqqjwt hwnxynfst, vzj st rj
rfyj; vzj htrjyjwá zs lwfs xfhwnqjlnt, vzj xtd qnhjshnfit d yjslt qfx
uwnrjwfx ówijsjx.

-Uzjx, ¿vznés infgqtx tx mf ywfíit fvzí -inot its Vznotyj-, xnjsit mtrgwj
ij Nlqjxnf?

-¿Vznés, xjñtw? -wjuqnhó jq hfíit-: rn ijxajsyzwf.

-Uzjx tywf rfdtw tx frjsfef -inot its Vznotyj-, xn st rj xfynxkfhénx f ytit
hzfsyt uwnrjwt tx uwjlzsyé.

-Hts kfhnqnifi xjwá azjxywf rjwhji xfynxkjhmt -wjxutsinó jq qnhjshnfit-; d
fxí, xfgwá azjxywf rjwhji vzj, fzsvzj ijsfsyjx inoj vzj dt jwf qnhjshnfit,
st xtd xnst gfhmnqqjw, d qqártrj Fqtsxt Qóuje; xtd sfyzwfq ij Fqhtgjsifx;
ajslt ij qf hnzifi ij Gfjef hts tywtx tshj xfhjwityjx, vzj xts qtx vzj
mzdjwts hts qfx mfhmfx; afrtx f qf hnzifi ij Xjltanf fhtrufñfsit zs hzjwut
rzjwyt, vzj af js fvzjqqf qnyjwf, vzj jx ij zs hfgfqqjwt vzj rzwnó js
Gfjef, itsij kzj ijutxnyfit; d fmtwf, htrt inlt, qqjaágfrtx xzx mzjxtx f xz
xjuzqyzwf, vzj jxyá js Xjltanf, ij itsij jx sfyzwfq.

-¿D vznés qj rfyó? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Intx, utw rjint ij zsfx hfqjsyzwfx ujxynqjsyjx vzj qj injwts -wjxutsinó jq
gfhmnqqjw.

-Ijxf xzjwyj -inot its Vznotyj-, vznyfit rj mf Szjxywt Xjñtw ijq ywfgfot
vzj mfgíf ij ytrfw js ajslfw xz rzjwyj xn tywt fqlzst qj mzgnjwf rzjwyt;
ujwt, mfgnésitqj rzjwyt vznjs qj rfyó, st mfd xnst hfqqfw d jshtljw qtx
mtrgwtx, utwvzj qt rjxrt mnhnjwf xn f rí rnxrt rj rfyfwf. D vznjwt vzj xjuf
azjxywf wjajwjshnf vzj dt xtd zs hfgfqqjwt ij qf Rfshmf, qqfrfit its
Vznotyj, d jx rn tknhnt d jojwhnhnt fsifw utw jq rzsit jsijwjefsit yzjwytx
d ijxkfhnjsit flwfantx.

-St xé hórt uzjif xjw jxt ij jsijwjefw yzjwytx -inot jq gfhmnqqjw-, uzjx f
rí ij ijwjhmt rj mfgénx azjqyt yzjwyt, ijoásitrj zsf unjwsf vzjgwfif, qf
hzfq st xj ajwá ijwjhmf js ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif; d jq flwfant vzj js
rí mfgénx ijxmjhmt mf xnit ijofwrj flwfanfit ij rfsjwf vzj rj vzjifwé
flwfanfit ufwf xnjruwj; d mfwyf ijxajsyzwf mf xnit ytufw hts atx, vzj afnx
gzxhfsit fajsyzwfx.

-St ytifx qfx htxfx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- xzhjijs ij zs rnxrt rtit. Jq
ifñt jxyzat, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw Fqtsxt Qóuje, js ajsnw, htrt ajsífijx, ij
sthmj, ajxynitx hts fvzjqqfx xtgwjujqqnhjx, hts qfx mfhmfx jshjsinifx,
wjefsit, hzgnjwytx ij qzyt, vzj uwtunfrjsyj xjrjoágfijx htxf rfqf d ijq
tywt rzsit; d fxí, dt st uzij ijofw ij hzruqnw hts rn tgqnlfhnós
fhtrjynésittx, d tx fhtrjynjwf fzsvzj ajwifijwfrjsyj xzunjwf vzj éwfijx qtx
rjrtx xfyfsfxjx ijq nsknjwst, vzj utw yfqjx tx ozelzé d yzaj xnjruwj.
-Df vzj fxí qt mf vzjwnit rn xzjwyj -inot jq gfhmnqqjw-, xzuqnht f azjxywf
rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj (vzj yfs rfqf fsifsef rj mf ifit), rj fdzij
f xfqnw ij ijgfot ijxyf rzqf, vzj rj ynjsj ytrfif zsf unjwsf jsywj jq
jxywngt d qf xnqqf.

-¡Mfgqfwf dt ufwf rfñfsf! -inot its Vznotyj-. D ¿mfxyf hzásit flzfwiágfijx
f ijhnwrj azjxywt fkás?

Int qzjlt athjx f Xfshmt Ufsef vzj ansnjxj; ujwt éq st xj hzwó ij ajsnw,
utwvzj fsifgf thzufit ijxafqnofsit zsf fhérnqf ij wjuzjxyt vzj ywfífs
fvzjqqtx gzjstx xjñtwjx, gnjs gfxyjhnif ij htxfx ij htrjw. Mnet Xfshmt
htxyfq ij xz lfgás, d, wjhtlnjsit ytit qt vzj uzit d hzut js jq yfqjlt,
hfwló xz ozrjsyt, d qzjlt fhzinó f qfx athjx ij xz frt d fdzió f xfhfw fq
xjñtw gfhmnqqjw ij qf tuwjxnós ij qf rzqf; d, utsnésitqj jshnrf ijqqf, qj
int qf mfhmf, d its Vznotyj qj inot vzj xnlznjxj qf ijwwtyf ij xzx
htrufñjwtx, f vznjs ij xz ufwyj uninjxj ujwiós ijq flwfant, vzj st mfgíf
xnit js xz rfst ijofw ij mfgjwqj mjhmt. Iíotqj yfrgnés Xfshmt:

-Xn fhfxt vznxnjwjs xfgjw jxtx xjñtwjx vznés mf xnit jq afqjwtxt vzj yfqjx
qtx uzxt, inwáqjx azjxywf rjwhji vzj jx jq kfrtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
vzj utw tywt strgwj xj qqfrf jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf.

Hts jxyt, xj kzj jq gfhmnqqjw; d its Vznotyj uwjlzsyó f Xfshmt vzj vzé qj
mfgíf rtanit f qqfrfwqj jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, ráx jsytshjx vzj
szshf.

-Dt xj qt inwé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: utwvzj qj mj jxyfit rnwfsit zs wfyt f qf
qze ij fvzjqqf mfhmf vzj qqjaf fvzjq rfqfsifsyj, d ajwifijwfrjsyj ynjsj
azjxywf rjwhji qf ráx rfqf knlzwf, ij utht fhá, vzj ofráx mj anxyt; d
iégjqt ij mfgjw hfzxfit, t df jq hfsxfshnt ijxyj htrgfyj, t df qf kfqyf ij
qfx rzjqfx d injsyjx.

-St jx jxt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xnst vzj jq xfgnt, f hzdt hfwlt ijgj ij
jxyfw jq jxhwngnw qf mnxytwnf ij rnx mfefñfx, qj mfgwá ufwjhnit vzj xjwá
gnjs vzj dt ytrj fqlús strgwj fujqfynat, htrt qt ytrfgfs ytitx qtx
hfgfqqjwtx ufxfitx: hzáq xj qqfrfgf jq ij qf Fwinjsyj Jxufif; hzáq, jq ijq
Zsnhtwsnt; fvzjq, ij qfx Itshjqqfx; fvzéxyj, jq ijq Faj Késnc; jq tywt, jq
Hfgfqqjwt ijq Lwnkt; jxytywt, jq ij qf Rzjwyj; d utw jxytx strgwjx j
nsxnlsnfx jwfs htsthnitx utw ytif qf wjitsije ij qf ynjwwf. D fxí, inlt vzj
jq xfgnt df inhmt yj mfgwá uzjxyt js qf qjslzf d js jq ujsxfrnjsyt fmtwf
vzj rj qqfrfxjx jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, htrt unjsxt qqfrfwrj
ijxij mtd js fijqfsyj; d, ufwf vzj rjotw rj hzfiwj yfq strgwj, ijyjwrnst ij
mfhjw unsyfw, hzfsit mfdf qzlfw, js rn jxhzit zsf rzd ywnxyj knlzwf.
-St mfd ufwf vzé lfxyfw ynjrut d insjwtx js mfhjw jxf knlzwf -inot Xfshmt-,
xnst qt vzj xj mf ij mfhjw jx vzj azjxywf rjwhji ijxhzgwf qf xzdf d ié
wtxywt f qtx vzj qj rnwfwjs; vzj, xns ráx sn ráx, d xns tywf nrfljs sn
jxhzit, qj qqfrfwás jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf; d hwéfrj vzj qj inlt ajwifi,
utwvzj qj uwtrjyt f azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw, d jxyt xjf inhmt js gzwqfx, vzj
qj mfhj yfs rfqf hfwf qf mfrgwj d qf kfqyf ij qfx rzjqfx, vzj, htrt df
yjslt inhmt, xj utiwá rzd gnjs jxhzxfw qf ywnxyj unsyzwf.

Wnóxj its Vznotyj ijq itsfnwj ij Xfshmt, ujwt, hts ytit, uwtuzxt ij
qqfrfwxj ij fvzjq strgwj js uzinjsit unsyfw xz jxhzit, t wtijqf, htrt mfgíf
nrflnsfit.

Js jxyt atqanó jq gfhmnqqjw d qj inot f its Vznotyj:

-Tqaniágfxjrj ij ijhnw vzj fianjwyf azjxywf rjwhji vzj vzjif ijxhtrzqlfit
utw mfgjw uzjxyt qfx rfstx antqjsyfrjsyj js htxf xflwfif: ozcyf nqqzi: Xn
vznx xzfijsyj infgtqt, jyh.

-St jsynjsit jxj qfyís -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, rfx dt xé gnjs vzj st uzxj
qfx rfstx, xnst jxyj qfseós; hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt st ujsxé vzj tkjsiíf f
xfhjwityjx sn f htxfx ij qf Nlqjxnf, f vznjs wjxujyt d fitwt htrt hfyóqnht
d knjq hwnxynfst vzj xtd, xnst f kfsyfxrfx d f ajxynlqtx ijq tywt rzsit; d,
hzfsit jxt fxí kzjxj, js qf rjrtwnf yjslt qt vzj qj ufxó fq Hni Wzd Iífe,
hzfsit vzjgwó qf xnqqf ijq jrgfofitw ij fvzjq wjd ijqfsyj ij Xz Xfsynifi
ijq Ufuf, utw qt hzfq qt ijxhtrzqló, d fsizat fvzjq iíf jq gzjs Wtiwnlt ij
Anafw htrt rzd mtswfit d afqnjsyj hfgfqqjwt.

Js tdjsit jxyt jq gfhmnqqjw, xj kzj, htrt vzjif inhmt, xns wjuqnhfwqj
ufqfgwf. Vznxnjwf its Vznotyj rnwfw xn jq hzjwut vzj ajsíf js qf qnyjwf
jwfs mzjxtx t st, ujwt st qt htsxnsynó Xfshmt, inhnésitqj:

-Xjñtw, azjxywf rjwhji mf fhfgfit jxyf ujqnlwtxf fajsyzwf qt ráx f xz xfqat
ij ytifx qfx vzj dt mj anxyt; jxyf ljsyj, fzsvzj ajshnif d ijxgfwfyfif,
utiwíf xjw vzj hfdjxj js qf hzjsyf ij vzj qtx ajshnó xtqf zsf ujwxtsf, d,
htwwnitx d fajwltsefitx ijxyt, atqanjxjs f wjmfhjwxj d f gzxhfwstx, d stx
injxjs js vzé jsyjsijw. Jq ozrjsyt jxyá htrt htsanjsj, qf rtsyfñf hjwhf, qf
mfrgwj hfwlf, st mfd vzj mfhjw xnst wjynwfwstx hts ljsynq htruáx ij unjx,
d, htrt inhjs, aádfxj jq rzjwyt f qf xjuzqyzwf d jq anat f qf mtlfef.
D, fsyjhtlnjsit xz fxst, wtló f xz xjñtw vzj qj xnlznjxj; jq hzfq,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj Xfshmt yjsíf wfeós, xns atqajwqj f wjuqnhfw, qj xnlznó. D,
f utht ywjhmt vzj hfrnsfgfs utw jsywj itx rtsyfñzjqfx, xj mfqqfwts js zs
jxufhntxt d jxhtsinit afqqj, itsij xj fujfwts; d Xfshmt fqnanó jq ozrjsyt,
d, yjsinitx xtgwj qf ajwij djwgf, hts qf xfqxf ij xz mfrgwj, fqrtwefwts,
htrnjwts, rjwjsifwts d hjsfwts f zs rjxrt uzsyt, xfynxkfhnjsit xzx
jxyórfltx hts ráx ij zsf knfrgwjwf vzj qtx xjñtwjx hqéwnltx ijq inkzsyt
-vzj uthfx ajhjx xj ijofs rfq ufxfw- js qf fhérnqf ij xz wjuzjxyt ywfífs.
Rfx xzhjinóqjx tywf ijxlwfhnf, vzj Xfshmt qf yzat utw qf ujtw ij ytifx, d
kzj vzj st yjsífs anst vzj gjgjw, sn fzs flzf vzj qqjlfw f qf gthf; d,
fhtxfitx ij qf xji, inot Xfshmt, anjsit vzj jq uwfit itsij jxyfgfs jxyfgf
htqrfit ij ajwij d rjszif djwgf, qt vzj xj inwá js jq xnlznjsyj hfuíyzqt.





Hfuíyzqt CC. Ij qf ofráx anxyf sn tíif fajsyzwf vzj hts ráx utht ujqnlwt
kzj fhfgfif ij kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt js jq rzsit, htrt qf vzj fhfgó jq afqjwtxt
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf


-St jx utxngqj, xjñtw rít, xnst vzj jxyfx djwgfx ifs yjxynrtsnt ij vzj utw
fvzí hjwhf ijgj ij jxyfw fqlzsf kzjsyj t fwwtdt vzj jxyfx djwgfx mzrjijhj;
d fxí, xjwá gnjs vzj afrtx zs utht ráx fijqfsyj, vzj df ytufwjrtx itsij
utifrtx rnynlfw jxyf yjwwngqj xji vzj stx kfynlf, vzj, xns izif, hfzxf
rfdtw ujsf vzj qf mfrgwj.

Ufwjhnóqj gnjs jq htsxjot f its Vznotyj, d, ytrfsit ij qf wnjsif f
Wthnsfsyj, d Xfshmt ijq hfgjxywt f xz fxst, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw uzjxyt xtgwj
éq qtx wjqnjajx vzj ij qf hjsf vzjifwts, htrjsefwts f hfrnsfw utw jq uwfit
fwwngf f ynjsyt, utwvzj qf jxhzwnifi ij qf sthmj st qjx ijofgf ajw htxf
fqlzsf; rfx, st mzgnjwts fsifit ithnjsytx ufxtx, hzfsit qqjló f xzx tíitx
zs lwfsij wznit ij flzf, htrt vzj ij fqlzstx lwfsijx d qjafsyfitx wnxhtx xj
ijxujñfgf. Fqjlwóqjx jq wznit js lwfs rfsjwf, d, ufwásitxj f jxhzhmfw mfhnf
vzé ufwyj xtsfgf, tdjwts f ijxmtwf tywt jxywzjsit vzj qjx flzó jq htsyjsyt
ijq flzf, jxujhnfqrjsyj f Xfshmt, vzj sfyzwfqrjsyj jwf rjiwtxt d ij utht
ásnrt. Inlt vzj tdjwts vzj ifgfs zstx ltqujx f htruáx, hts zs hnjwyt hwzonw
ij mnjwwtx d hfijsfx, vzj, fhtrufñfitx ijq kzwntxt jxywzjsit ijq flzf, vzj
uzxnjwfs ufatw f hzfqvznjw tywt htwfeós vzj st kzjwf jq ij its Vznotyj.
Jwf qf sthmj, htrt xj mf inhmt, jxhzwf, d jqqtx fhjwyfwts f jsywfw jsywj
zstx áwgtqjx fqytx, hzdfx mtofx, rtanifx ijq gqfsit anjsyt, mfhífs zs
yjrjwtxt d rfsxt wznit; ij rfsjwf vzj qf xtqjifi, jq xnynt, qf jxhzwnifi,
jq wznit ijq flzf hts jq xzxzwwt ij qfx mtofx, ytit hfzxfgf mtwwtw d
jxufsyt, d ráx hzfsit anjwts vzj sn qtx ltqujx hjxfgfs, sn jq anjsyt
itwríf, sn qf rfñfsf qqjlfgf; fñfinésitxj f ytit jxyt jq nlstwfw jq qzlfw
itsij xj mfqqfgfs. Ujwt its Vznotyj, fhtrufñfit ij xz nsywéunit htwfeós,
xfqyó xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, d, jrgwfefsit xz wtijqf, yjwhnó xz qfseós d inot:
-Xfshmt frnlt, mfx ij xfgjw vzj dt sfhí, utw vzjwjw ijq hnjqt, js jxyf
szjxywf jifi ij mnjwwt, ufwf wjxzhnyfw js jqqf qf ij twt, t qf itwfif, htrt
xzjqj qqfrfwxj. Dt xtd fvzéq ufwf vznjs jxyás lzfwifitx qtx ujqnlwtx, qfx
lwfsijx mfefñfx, qtx afqjwtxtx mjhmtx. Dt xtd, inlt tywf aje, vznjs mf ij
wjxzhnyfw qtx ij qf Yfgqf Wjitsif, qtx Ithj ij Kwfshnf d qtx Szjaj ij qf
Kfrf, d jq vzj mf ij utsjw js tqanit qtx Uqfynwjx, qtx Yfgqfsyjx, Tqnafsyjx
d Ynwfsyjx, qtx Kjgtx d Gjqnfsnxjx, hts ytif qf hfyjwaf ij qtx kfrtxtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ijq ufxfit ynjrut, mfhnjsit js jxyj js vzj rj mfqqt
yfqjx lwfsijefx, jxywfñjefx d kjhmtx ij fwrfx, vzj jxhzwjehfs qfx ráx
hqfwfx vzj jqqtx knhnjwts. Gnjs styfx, jxhzijwt knjq d qjlfq, qfx ynsnjgqfx
ijxyf sthmj, xz jxywfñt xnqjshnt, jq xtwit d htskzxt jxywzjsit ijxytx
áwgtqjx, jq yjrjwtxt wznit ij fvzjqqf flzf js hzdf gzxhf ajsnrtx, vzj
ufwjhj vzj xj ijxujñf d ijwwzrgf ijxij qtx fqytx rtsyjx ij qf qzsf, d
fvzjq nshjxfgqj ltqujfw vzj stx mnjwj d qfxynrf qtx tíitx; qfx hzfqjx
htxfx, ytifx ozsyfx d hfif zsf utw xí, xts gfxyfsyjx f nskzsinw rnjit,
yjrtw d jxufsyt js jq ujhmt ijq rjxrt Rfwyj, hzfsyt ráx js fvzjq vzj st
jxyá fhtxyzrgwfit f xjrjofsyjx fhtsyjhnrnjsytx d fajsyzwfx. Uzjx ytit jxyt
vzj dt yj unsyt xts nshjsynatx d ijxujwyfitwjx ij rn ásnrt, vzj df mfhj vzj
jq htwfeós rj wjanjsyj js jq ujhmt, hts jq ijxjt vzj ynjsj ij fhtrjyjw jxyf
fajsyzwf, utw ráx inknhzqytxf vzj xj rzjxywf. Fxí vzj, fuwnjyf zs utht qfx
hnshmfx f Wthnsfsyj d vzéifyj f Intx, d jxuéwfrj fvzí mfxyf ywjx iífx st
ráx, js qtx hzfqjx, xn st atqanjwj, uzjijx yú atqajwyj f szjxywf fqijf, d
ijxij fqqí, utw mfhjwrj rjwhji d gzjsf tgwf, nwáx fq Ytgtxt, itsij inwáx f
qf nshtrufwfgqj xjñtwf ríf Izqhnsjf vzj xz hfzynat hfgfqqjwt rzwnó utw
fhtrjyjw htxfx vzj qj mnhnjxjs inlst ij utijw qqfrfwxj xzdt.

Hzfsit Xfshmt tdó qfx ufqfgwfx ij xz frt, htrjseó f qqtwfw hts qf rfdtw
yjwszwf ijq rzsit d f ijhnqqj:

-Xjñtw, dt st xé utw vzé vznjwj azjxywf rjwhji fhtrjyjw jxyf yfs yjrjwtxf
fajsyzwf: fmtwf jx ij sthmj, fvzí st stx ajj sfinj, gnjs utijrtx ytwhjw jq
hfrnst d ijxanfwstx ijq ujqnlwt, fzsvzj st gjgfrtx js ywjx iífx; d, uzjx st
mfd vznjs stx ajf, rjstx mfgwá vznjs stx styj ij htgfwijx; hzfsyt ráx, vzj
dt mj tíit uwjinhfw fq hzwf ij szjxywt qzlfw, vzj azjxywf rjwhji gnjs
htsthj, vzj vznjs gzxhf jq ujqnlwt ujwjhj js éq; fxí vzj, st jx gnjs yjsyfw
f Intx fhtrjynjsit yfs ijxfktwfit mjhmt, itsij st xj uzjij jxhfufw xnst utw
rnqflwt; d gfxyf qtx vzj mf mjhmt jq hnjqt hts azjxywf rjwhji js qngwfwqj
ij xjw rfsyjfit, htrt dt qt kzn, d js xfhfwqj ajshjitw, qngwj d xfqat ij
jsywj yfsytx jsjrnltx htrt fhtrufñfgfs fq inkzsyt. D, hzfsit ytit jxyt st
rzjaf sn fgqfsij jxj izwt htwfeós, rzéafqj jq ujsxfw d hwjjw vzj fujsfx xj
mfgwá azjxywf rjwhji fufwyfit ij fvzí, hzfsit dt, ij rnjit, ié rn ásnrf f
vznjs vznxnjwj qqjafwqf. Dt xfqí ij rn ynjwwf d ijoé mnotx d rzojw utw
ajsnw f xjwanw f azjxywf rjwhji, hwjdjsit afqjw ráx d st rjstx; ujwt, htrt
qf hzinhnf wtruj jq xfht, f rí rj mf wfxlfit rnx jxujwfsefx, uzjx hzfsit
ráx anafx qfx yjsíf ij fqhfsefw fvzjqqf sjlwf d rfqmfifif ísxzqf vzj yfsyfx
ajhjx azjxywf rjwhji rj mf uwtrjynit, ajt vzj, js uflt d ywzjht ijqqf, rj
vznjwj fmtwf ijofw js zs qzlfw yfs fufwyfit ijq ywfyt mzrfst. Utw zs xtqt
Intx, xjñtw rít, vzj sts xj rj kflf yfq ijxflznxfit; d df vzj ijq ytit st
vznjwf azjxywf rjwhji ijxnxynw ij fhtrjyjw jxyj kjhmt, inqáyjqt, f qt
rjstx, mfxyf qf rfñfsf; vzj, f qt vzj f rí rj rzjxywf qf hnjshnf vzj
fuwjsií hzfsit jwf ufxytw, st ijgj ij mfgjw ijxij fvzí fq fqgf ywjx mtwfx,
utwvzj qf gthf ij qf Gthnsf jxyá jshnrf ij qf hfgjef, d mfhj qf rjinf sthmj
js qf qísjf ijq gwfet nevznjwit.

-¿Hórt uzjijx yú, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, ajw iósij mfhj jxf qísjf, sn
iósij jxyá jxf gthf t jxj htqtiwnqqt vzj inhjx, xn mfhj qf sthmj yfs jxhzwf
vzj st ufwjhj js ytit jq hnjqt jxywjqqf fqlzsf?

-Fxí jx -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt ynjsj jq rnjit rzhmtx totx d ajj qfx htxfx
ijgfot ij ynjwwf, hzfsyt ráx jshnrf js jq hnjqt; uzjxyt vzj, utw gzjs
inxhzwxt, gnjs xj uzjij jsyjsijw vzj mfd utht ij fvzí fq iíf.

-Kfqyj qt vzj kfqyfwj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; vzj st xj mf ij ijhnw utw
rí, fmtwf sn js snslús ynjrut, vzj qálwnrfx d wzjltx rj fufwyfwts ij mfhjw
qt vzj ijgíf f jxynqt ij hfgfqqjwt; d fxí, yj wzjlt, Xfshmt, vzj hfqqjx;
vzj Intx, vzj rj mf uzjxyt js htwfeós ij fhtrjyjw fmtwf jxyf yfs st anxyf d
yfs yjrjwtxf fajsyzwf, yjsiwá hznifit ij rnwfw utw rn xfqzi d ij htsxtqfw
yz ywnxyjef. Qt vzj mfx ij mfhjw jx fuwjyfw gnjs qfx hnshmfx f Wthnsfsyj d
vzjifwyj fvzí, vzj dt ifwé qf azjqyf uwjxyt, t anat t rzjwyt.

Anjsit, uzjx, Xfshmt qf úqynrf wjxtqzhnós ij xz frt d hzás utht afqífs hts
éq xzx qálwnrfx, htsxjotx d wzjltx, ijyjwrnsó ij fuwtajhmfwxj ij xz
nsizxywnf d mfhjwqj jxujwfw mfxyf jq iíf, xn uzinjxj; d fxí, hzfsit
fuwjyfgf qfx hnshmfx fq hfgfqqt, gtsnyfrjsyj d xns xjw xjsynit, fyó hts jq
hfgjxywt ij xz fxst frgtx unjx f Wthnsfsyj, ij rfsjwf vzj hzfsit its
Vznotyj xj vznxt ufwynw, st uzit, utwvzj jq hfgfqqt st xj utiíf rtajw xnst
f xfqytx. Anjsit Xfshmt Ufsef jq gzjs xzhjxt ij xz jrgzxyj, inot:

-Jf, xjñtw, vzj jq hnjqt, htsrtanit ij rnx qálwnrfx d uqjlfwnfx, mf
twijsfit vzj st xj uzjif rtajw Wthnsfsyj; d xn atx vzjwénx utwknfw, d
jxutqjfw, d ifqqj, xjwá jstofw f qf ktwyzsf d ifw hthjx, htrt inhjs, htsywf
jq flznoós.

Ijxjxujwágfxj hts jxyt its Vznotyj, d, utw ráx vzj utsíf qfx unjwsfx fq
hfgfqqt, rjstx qj utiíf rtajw; d, xns hfjw js qf hzjsyf ij qf qnlfizwf,
yzat utw gnjs ij xtxjlfwxj d jxujwfw, t f vzj frfsjhnjxj, t f vzj Wthnsfsyj
xj rjsjfxj, hwjdjsit, xns izif, vzj fvzjqqt ajsíf ij tywf ufwyj vzj ij qf
nsizxywnf ij Xfshmt; d fxí, qj inot:

-Uzjx fxí jx, Xfshmt, vzj Wthnsfsyj st uzjij rtajwxj, dt xtd htsyjsyt ij
jxujwfw f vzj wíf jq fqgf, fzsvzj dt qqtwj qt vzj jqqf yfwifwj js ajsnw.
-St mfd vzj qqtwfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj dt jsywjyjsiwé f azjxywf rjwhji
htsyfsit hzjsytx ijxij fvzí fq iíf, xn df st jx vzj xj vznjwj fujfw d
jhmfwxj f itwrnw zs utht xtgwj qf ajwij djwgf, f zxt ij hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx, ufwf mfqqfwxj ráx ijxhfsxfit hzfsit qqjlzj jq iíf d uzsyt ij
fhtrjyjw jxyf yfs ijxjrjofgqj fajsyzwf vzj qj jxujwf.

-¿F vzé qqfrfx fujfw t f vzé itwrnw? -inot its Vznotyj-. ¿Xtd dt, utw
ajsyzwf, ij fvzjqqtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj ytrfs wjutxt js qtx ujqnlwtx? Izjwrj
yú, vzj sfhnxyj ufwf itwrnw, t mfe qt vzj vznxnjwjx, vzj dt mfwé qt vzj
anjwj vzj ráx anjsj hts rn uwjyjsxnós.

St xj jstoj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st qt inoj
utw yfsyt.

D, qqjlásitxj f éq, uzxt qf zsf rfst js jq fweós ijqfsyjwt d qf tywf js jq
tywt, ij rtit vzj vzjió fgwfefit hts jq rzxqt nevznjwit ij xz frt, xns
txfwxj fufwyfw iéq zs ijit: yfq jwf jq rnjit vzj yjsíf f qtx ltqujx, vzj
ytifaíf fqyjwsfynafrjsyj xtsfgfs. Iíotqj its Vznotyj vzj htsyfxj fqlús
hzjsyt ufwf jsywjyjsjwqj, htrt xj qt mfgíf uwtrjynit, f qt vzj Xfshmt inot
vzj xí mnhnjwf xn qj ijofwf jq yjrtw ij qt vzj tíf.

-Ujwt, hts ytit jxt, dt rj jxktwefwé f ijhnw zsf mnxytwnf vzj, xn qf
fhnjwyt f htsyfw d st rj afs f qf rfst, jx qf rjotw ij qfx mnxytwnfx; d
jxyérj azjxywf rjwhji fyjsyt, vzj df htrnjset. «Éwfxj vzj xj jwf, jq gnjs
vzj ansnjwj ufwf ytitx xjf, d jq rfq, ufwf vznjs qt kzjwj f gzxhfw...» D
fianjwyf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, vzj jq uwnshnunt vzj qtx fsynlztx
injwts f xzx htsxjofx st kzj fxí htrtvznjwf, vzj kzj zsf xjsyjshnf ij Hfyós
Etsetwnst, wtrfst, vzj inhj: "D jq rfq, ufwf vznjs qj kzjwj f gzxhfw", vzj
anjsj fvzí htrt fsnqqt fq ijit, ufwf vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj jxyé vzjit d st
afdf f gzxhfw jq rfq f snslzsf ufwyj, xnst vzj stx atqafrtx utw tywt
hfrnst, uzjx sfinj stx kzjwef f vzj xnlfrtx éxyj, itsij yfsytx rnjitx stx
xtgwjxfqyfs.

-Xnlzj yz hzjsyt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, d ijq hfrnst vzj mjrtx ij
xjlznw iéofrj f rí jq hznifit.

-«Inlt, uzjx -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt-, vzj js zs qzlfw ij Jxywjrfizwf mfgíf zs
ufxytw hfgwjwnet (vznjwt ijhnw vzj lzfwifgf hfgwfx), jq hzfq ufxytw t
hfgwjwnet, htrt inlt, ij rn hzjsyt, xj qqfrfgf Qtuj Wzne; d jxyj Qtuj Wzne
fsifgf jsfrtwfit ij zsf ufxytwf vzj xj qqfrfgf Ytwwfqgf, qf hzfq ufxytwf
qqfrfif Ytwwfqgf jwf mnof ij zs lfsfijwt wnht, d jxyj lfsfijwt wnht...»
-Xn ijxf rfsjwf hzjsyfx yz hzjsyt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, wjunynjsit
itx ajhjx qt vzj afx inhnjsit, st fhfgfwáx js itx iífx; inqt xjlznifrjsyj d
hzésyfqt htrt mtrgwj ij jsyjsinrnjsyt, d xn st, st inlfx sfif.

-Ij qf rnxrf rfsjwf vzj dt qt hzjsyt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xj hzjsyfs js rn
ynjwwf ytifx qfx htsxjofx, d dt st xé htsyfwqt ij tywf, sn jx gnjs vzj
azjxywf rjwhji rj unif vzj mflf zxtx szjatx.

-In htrt vznxnjwjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; vzj, uzjx qf xzjwyj vznjwj vzj
st uzjif ijofw ij jxhzhmfwyj, uwtxnlzj.

-«Fxí vzj, xjñtw rít ij rn ásnrf -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt-, vzj, htrt df yjslt
inhmt, jxyj ufxytw fsifgf jsfrtwfit ij Ytwwfqgf, qf ufxytwf, vzj jwf zsf
rtef wtqqnef, efmfwjñf d ynwfgf fqlt f mtrgwzsf, utwvzj yjsíf zstx uthtx ij
gnltyjx, vzj ufwjhj vzj fmtwf qf ajt.»

-Qzjlt, ¿htsthíxyjqf yú? -inot its Vznotyj.

-St qf htsthí dt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt vznjs rj htsyó jxyj hzjsyt rj
inot vzj jwf yfs hnjwyt d ajwifijwt vzj utiíf gnjs, hzfsit qt htsyfxj f
tywt, fknwrfw d ozwfw vzj qt mfgíf anxyt ytit. «Fxí vzj, djsit iífx d
ansnjsit iífx, jq infgqt, vzj st izjwrj d vzj ytit qt fñfxhf, mnet ij
rfsjwf vzj jq frtw vzj jq ufxytw yjsíf f qf ufxytwf xj atqanjxj js trjhnqqt
d rfqf atqzsyfi; d qf hfzxf kzj, xjlús rfqfx qjslzfx, zsf hnjwyf hfsynifi
ij hjqnqqtx vzj jqqf qj int, yfqjx vzj ufxfgfs ij qf wfdf d qqjlfgfs f qt
ajifit; d kzj yfsyt qt vzj jq ufxytw qf fgtwwjhnó ij fqqí fijqfsyj vzj, utw
st ajwqf, xj vznxt fzxjsyfw ij fvzjqqf ynjwwf j nwxj itsij xzx totx st qf
anjxjs ofráx. Qf Ytwwfqgf, vzj xj ant ijxijñfif ijq Qtuj, qzjlt qj vznxt
gnjs, rfx vzj szshf qj mfgíf vzjwnit.»

-Éxf jx sfyzwfq htsinhnós ij rzojwjx -inot its Vznotyj-: ijxijñfw f vznjs
qfx vznjwj d frfw f vznjs qfx fgtwwjhj. Ufxf fijqfsyj, Xfshmt.
-«Xzhjinó -inot Xfshmt- vzj jq ufxytw uzxt utw tgwf xz ijyjwrnsfhnós, d,
fsyjhtlnjsit xzx hfgwfx, xj jshfrnsó utw qtx hfrutx ij Jxywjrfizwf, ufwf
ufxfwxj f qtx wjnstx ij Utwyzlfq. Qf Ytwwfqgf, vzj qt xzut, xj kzj ywfx éq,
d xjlzífqj f unj d ijxhfqef ijxij qjotx, hts zs gtwiós js qf rfst d hts
zsfx fqktwofx fq hzjqqt, itsij qqjafgf, xjlús jx kfrf, zs ujifet ij jxujot
d tywt ij zs ujnsj, d st xé vzé gtyjhnqqt ij rzifx ufwf qf hfwf; rfx,
qqjafxj qt vzj qqjafxj, vzj dt st rj vznjwt rjyjw fmtwf js fajwnlzfqqt,
xóqt inwé vzj inhjs vzj jq ufxytw qqjló hts xz lfsfit f ufxfw jq wít
Lzfinfsf, d js fvzjqqf xfeós ngf hwjhnit d hfxn kzjwf ij rfiwj, d utw qf
ufwyj vzj qqjló st mfgíf gfwhf sn gfwht, sn vznjs qj ufxfxj f éq sn f xz
lfsfit ij qf tywf ufwyj, ij qt vzj xj htsltoó rzhmt, utwvzj ajíf vzj qf
Ytwwfqgf ajsíf df rzd hjwhf d qj mfgíf ij ifw rzhmf ujxfizrgwj hts xzx
wzjltx d qálwnrfx; rfx, yfsyt fsizat rnwfsit, vzj ant zs ujxhfitw vzj yjsíf
ozsyt f xí zs gfwht, yfs ujvzjñt vzj xtqfrjsyj utiífs hfgjw js éq zsf
ujwxtsf d zsf hfgwf; d, hts ytit jxyt, qj mfgqó d htshjwyó hts éq vzj qj
ufxfxj f éq d f ywjhnjsyfx hfgwfx vzj qqjafgf. Jsywó jq ujxhfitw js jq
gfwht, d ufxó zsf hfgwf; atqanó, d ufxó tywf; ytwsó f atqajw, d ytwsó f
ufxfw tywf.» Yjslf azjxywf rjwhji hzjsyf js qfx hfgwfx vzj jq ujxhfitw af
ufxfsit, utwvzj xn xj unjwij zsf ij qf rjrtwnf, xj fhfgfwá jq hzjsyt d st
xjwá utxngqj htsyfw ráx ufqfgwf iéq. «Xnlt, uzjx, d inlt vzj jq
ijxjrgfwhfijwt ij qf tywf ufwyj jxyfgf qqjst ij hnjst d wjxgfqtxt, d
yfwifgf jq ujxhfitw rzhmt ynjrut js nw d atqajw. Hts ytit jxyt, atqanó utw
tywf hfgwf, d tywf, d tywf...»

-Mfe hzjsyf vzj qfx ufxó ytifx -inot its Vznotyj-: st fsijx djsit d
ansnjsit ijxf rfsjwf, vzj st fhfgfwáx ij ufxfwqfx js zs fñt.

-¿Hzásyfx mfs ufxfit mfxyf fltwf? -inot Xfshmt.

-¡Dt vzé infgqtx xé! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-.

-Mj fmí qt vzj dt inoj: vzj yzanjxj gzjsf hzjsyf. Uzjx, utw Intx, vzj xj mf
fhfgfit jq hzjsyt, vzj st mfd ufxfw fijqfsyj.

-¿Hórt uzjij xjw jxt? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. ¿Yfs ij jxjshnf ij qf
mnxytwnf jx xfgjw qfx hfgwfx vzj mfs ufxfit, utw jxyjsxt, vzj xn xj djwwf
zsf ijq súrjwt st uzjijx xjlznw fijqfsyj hts qf mnxytwnf?

-St xjñtw, js snslzsf rfsjwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; utwvzj, fxí htrt dt
uwjlzsyé f azjxywf rjwhji vzj rj inojxj hzásyfx hfgwfx mfgífs ufxfit d rj
wjxutsinó vzj st xfgíf, js fvzjq rjxrt nsxyfsyj xj rj kzj f rí ij qf
rjrtwnf hzfsyt rj vzjifgf utw ijhnw, d f kj vzj jwf ij rzhmf anwyzi d
htsyjsyt.

-¿Ij rtit -inot its Vznotyj- vzj df qf mnxytwnf jx fhfgfif?

-Yfs fhfgfif jx htrt rn rfiwj -inot Xfshmt.

-Iíltyj ij ajwifi -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj yú mfx htsyfit zsf ij qfx ráx
szjafx htsxjofx, hzjsyt t mnxytwnf, vzj sfinj uzit ujsxfw js jq rzsit; d
vzj yfq rtit ij htsyfwqf sn ijofwqf, ofráx xj utiwá ajw sn mfgwá anxyt js
ytif qf anif, fzsvzj st jxujwfgf dt tywf htxf ij yz gzjs inxhzwxt; rfx st
rj rfwfanqqt, uzjx vzneá jxytx ltqujx, vzj st hjxfs, yj ijgjs ij yjsjw
yzwgfit jq jsyjsinrnjsyt.

-Ytit uzjij xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, rfx dt xé vzj js qt ij rn hzjsyt st mfd
ráx vzj ijhnw: vzj fqqí xj fhfgf it htrnjsef jq djwwt ij qf hzjsyf ijq
ufxfoj ij qfx hfgwfx.

-Fhfgj stwfgzjsf itsij vznxnjwj -inot its Vznotyj-, d ajfrtx xn xj uzjij
rtajw Wthnsfsyj.

Ytwsóqj f utsjw qfx unjwsfx, d éq ytwsó f ifw xfqytx d f jxyfwxj vzjit:
yfsyt jxyfgf ij gnjs fyfit.

Js jxyt, ufwjhj xjw, t vzj jq kwít ij qf rfñfsf, vzj df ajsíf, t vzj Xfshmt
mzgnjxj hjsfit fqlzsfx htxfx qjsnynafx, t vzj kzjxj htxf sfyzwfq -vzj jx qt
vzj ráx xj ijgj hwjjw-, f éq qj anst js atqzsyfi d ijxjt ij mfhjw qt vzj
tywt st uzinjwf mfhjw utw éq; rfx jwf yfsyt jq rnjit vzj mfgíf jsywfit js
xz htwfeós, vzj st txfgf fufwyfwxj zs sjlwt ij zñf ij xz frt. Uzjx ujsxfw
ij st mfhjw qt vzj yjsíf lfsf, yfrutht jwf utxngqj; d fxí, qt vzj mnet, utw
gnjs ij ufe, kzj xtqyfw qf rfst ijwjhmf, vzj yjsíf fxnif fq fweós ywfxjwt,
hts qf hzfq, gtsnyfrjsyj d xns wzrtw fqlzst, xj xtqyó qf qfefif htwwjinef
hts vzj qtx hfqetsjx xj xtxyjsífs, xns fdzif ij tywf fqlzsf, d, js
vznyásitxjqf, injwts qzjlt fgfot d xj qj vzjifwts htrt lwnqqtx. Ywfx jxyt,
fqeó qf hfrnxf qt rjotw vzj uzit d jhmó fq fnwj jsywfrgfx utxfijwfx, vzj st
jwfs rzd ujvzjñfx. Mjhmt jxyt -vzj éq ujsxó vzj jwf qt ráx vzj yjsíf vzj
mfhjw ufwf xfqnw ij fvzjq yjwwngqj fuwnjyt d fslzxynf-, qj xtgwjanst tywf
rfdtw, vzj kzj vzj qj ufwjhnó vzj st utiíf rzifwxj xns mfhjw jxywéunyt d
wznit, d htrjseó f fuwjyfw qtx injsyjx d f jshtljw qtx mtrgwtx, wjhtlnjsit
js xí jq fqnjsyt ytit hzfsyt utiíf; ujwt, hts ytifx jxyfx inqnljshnfx, kzj
yfs ijxinhmfit vzj, fq hfgt fq hfgt, anst f mfhjw zs utht ij wznit, gnjs
inkjwjsyj ij fvzjq vzj f éq qj utsíf yfsyt rnjit. Tdóqt its Vznotyj d inot:
-¿Vzé wzrtw jx éxj, Xfshmt?

-St xé, xjñtw -wjxutsinó éq-. Fqlzsf htxf szjaf ijgj ij xjw, vzj qfx
fajsyzwfx d ijxajsyzwfx szshf htrnjsefs utw utht.

Ytwsó tywf aje f uwtgfw ajsyzwf, d xzhjinóqj yfs gnjs vzj, xns ráx wznit sn
fqgtwtyt vzj jq ufxfit, xj mfqqó qngwj ij qf hfwlf vzj yfsyf ujxfizrgwj qj
mfgíf ifit. Rfx, htrt its Vznotyj yjsíf jq xjsynit ijq tqkfyt yfs anat htrt
jq ij qtx tíitx, d Xfshmt jxyfgf yfs ozsyt d htxnit hts éq vzj hfxn utw
qísjf wjhyf xzgífs qtx afutwjx mfhnf fwwngf, st xj uzit jxhzxfw ij vzj
fqlzstx st qqjlfxjs f xzx sfwnhjx; d, fujsfx mzgnjwts qqjlfit, hzfsit éq
kzj fq xthtwwt, fuwjyásitqfx jsywj qtx itx ijitx; d, hts ytst fqlt lfsltxt,
inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, Xfshmt, vzj ynjsjx rzhmt rnjit.

-Xí yjslt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; rfx, ¿js vzé qt jhmf ij ajw azjxywf rjwhji
fmtwf ráx vzj szshf?

-Js vzj fmtwf ráx vzj szshf mzjqjx, d st f árgfw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.
-Gnjs utiwá xjw -inot Xfshmt-, rfx dt st yjslt qf hzquf, xnst azjxywf
rjwhji, vzj rj ywfj f ijxmtwfx d utw jxytx st fhtxyzrgwfitx ufxtx.
-Wjyíwfyj ywjx t hzfywt fqqá, frnlt -inot its Vznotyj (ytit jxyt xns
vznyfwxj qtx ijitx ij qfx sfwnhjx)-, d ijxij fvzí fijqfsyj yjs ráx hzjsyf
hts yz ujwxtsf d hts qt vzj ijgjx f qf ríf; vzj qf rzhmf htsajwxfhnós vzj
yjslt htsynlt mf jsljsiwfit jxyj rjstxuwjhnt.

-Futxyfwé -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj unjsxf azjxywf rjwhji vzj dt mj mjhmt ij rn
ujwxtsf fqlzsf htxf vzj st ijgf.

-Ujtw jx rjsjfqqt, frnlt Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

Js jxytx htqtvzntx d tywtx xjrjofsyjx ufxfwts qf sthmj frt d rtet. Rfx,
anjsit Xfshmt vzj f ráx fsifw xj ajsíf qf rfñfsf, hts rzhmt ynjsyt ijxqnló
f Wthnsfsyj d xj fyó qtx hfqetsjx. Htrt Wthnsfsyj xj ant qngwj, fzsvzj éq
ij xzdt st jwf sfif gwntxt, ufwjhj vzj xj wjxnsynó, d htrjseó f ifw
rfstyfifx; utwvzj htwajyfx -hts ujwiós xzdt- st qfx xfgíf mfhjw. Anjsit,
uzjx, its Vznotyj vzj df Wthnsfsyj xj rtaíf, qt yzat f gzjsf xjñfq, d hwjdó
vzj qt jwf ij vzj fhtrjynjxj fvzjqqf yjrjwtxf fajsyzwf.

Fhfgó js jxyt ij ijxhzgwnwxj jq fqgf d ij ufwjhjw inxynsyfrjsyj qfx htxfx,
d ant its Vznotyj vzj jxyfgf jsywj zstx áwgtqjx fqytx, vzj jqqtx jwfs
hfxyfñtx, vzj mfhjs qf xtrgwf rzd jxhzwf. Xnsynó yfrgnés vzj jq ltqujfw st
hjxfgf, ujwt st ant vznés qt utiíf hfzxfw; d fxí, xns ráx ijyjsjwxj, mnet
xjsynw qfx jxuzjqfx f Wthnsfsyj, d, ytwsfsit f ijxujinwxj ij Xfshmt, qj
rfsió vzj fqqí qj flzfwifxj ywjx iífx, f qt ráx qfwlt, htrt df tywf aje xj
qt mfgíf inhmt; d vzj, xn fq hfgt ijqqtx st mzgnjxj azjqyt, yzanjxj utw
hnjwyt vzj Intx mfgíf xnit xjwanit ij vzj js fvzjqqf ujqnlwtxf fajsyzwf xj
qj fhfgfxjs xzx iífx. Ytwsóqj f wjkjwnw jq wjhfit d jrgfofif vzj mfgíf ij
qqjafw ij xz ufwyj f xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, d vzj, js qt vzj ythfgf f qf uflf
ij xzx xjwanhntx, st yzanjxj ujsf, utwvzj éq mfgíf ijofit mjhmt xz
yjxyfrjsyt fsyjx vzj xfqnjwf ij xz qzlfw, itsij xj mfqqfwíf lwfynknhfit ij
ytit qt ythfsyj f xz xfqfwnt, wfyf utw hfsynifi, ijq ynjrut vzj mzgnjxj
xjwanit; ujwt vzj xn Intx qj xfhfgf ij fvzjq ujqnlwt xfst d xfqat d xns
hfzyjqf, xj utiíf yjsjw utw rzd ráx vzj hnjwyf qf uwtrjynif ísxzqf.

Ij szjat ytwsó f qqtwfw Xfshmt, tdjsit ij szjat qfx qfxynrjwfx wfetsjx ij
xz gzjs xjñtw, d ijyjwrnsó ij st ijofwqj mfxyf jq úqynrt ywásxnyt d kns ij
fvzjq sjlthnt.

Ijxyfx qálwnrfx d ijyjwrnsfhnós yfs mtswfif ij Xfshmt Ufsef xfhf jq fzytw
ijxyf mnxytwnf vzj ijgíf ij xjw gnjs sfhnit, d, utw qt rjstx, hwnxynfst
anjot. Hzdt xjsynrnjsyt jsyjwsjhnó fqlt f xz frt, ujwt st yfsyt vzj
rtxywfxj kqfvzjef fqlzsf; fsyjx, inxnrzqfsit qt rjotw vzj uzit, htrjseó f
hfrnsfw mfhnf qf ufwyj utw itsij qj ufwjhnó vzj jq wznit ijq flzf d ijq
ltqujfw ajsíf.

Xjlzífqj Xfshmt f unj, qqjafsit, htrt yjsíf ij htxyzrgwj, ijq hfgjxywt f xz
ozrjsyt, ujwujyzt htrufñjwt ij xzx uwóxujwfx d fiajwxfx ktwyzsfx; d,
mfgnjsit fsifit zsf gzjsf unjef utw jsywj fvzjqqtx hfxyfñtx d áwgtqjx
xtrgwítx, injwts js zs uwfijhnqqt vzj fq unj ij zsfx fqyfx ujñfx xj mfhíf,
ij qfx hzfqjx xj uwjhnunyfgf zs lwfsiíxnrt ltquj ij flzf. Fq unj ij qfx
ujñfx, jxyfgfs zsfx hfxfx rfq mjhmfx, vzj ráx ufwjhífs wznsfx ij jinknhntx
vzj hfxfx, ij jsywj qfx hzfqjx fianwynjwts vzj xfqíf jq wznit d jxywzjsit
ij fvzjq ltqujfw, vzj fús st hjxfgf.

Fqgtwtyóxj Wthnsfsyj hts jq jxywzjsit ijq flzf d ij qtx ltqujx, d,
xtxjlásitqj its Vznotyj, xj kzj qqjlfsit utht f utht f qfx hfxfx,
jshtrjsiásitxj ij ytit htwfeós f xz xjñtwf, xzuqnhásitqj vzj js fvzjqqf
yjrjwtxf otwsfif d jruwjxf qj kfatwjhnjxj, d ij hfrnst xj jshtrjsifgf
yfrgnés f Intx, vzj st qj tqanifxj. St xj qj vznyfgf Xfshmt ijq qfit, jq
hzfq fqfwlfgf hzfsyt utiíf jq hzjqqt d qf anxyf utw jsywj qfx unjwsfx ij
Wthnsfsyj, utw ajw xn ajwíf df qt vzj yfs xzxujsxt d rjiwtxt qj yjsíf.
Tywtx hnjs ufxtx xjwífs qtx vzj fsizanjwts, hzfsit, fq itgqfw ij zsf uzsyf,
ufwjhnó ijxhzgnjwyf d ufyjsyj qf rnxrf hfzxf, xns vzj uzinjxj xjw tywf, ij
fvzjq mtwwíxtst d ufwf jqqtx jxufsyfgqj wznit, vzj yfs xzxujsxtx d rjiwtxtx
ytif qf sthmj qtx mfgíf yjsnit. D jwfs -xn st qt mfx, ¡tm qjhytw!, utw
ujxfizrgwj d jstot- xjnx rfetx ij gfyás, vzj hts xzx fqyjwsfynatx ltqujx
fvzjq jxywzjsit ktwrfgfs.

Hzfsit its Vznotyj ant qt vzj jwf, jsrzijhnó d ufxróxj ij fwwngf fgfot.
Rnwóqj Xfshmt, d ant vzj yjsíf qf hfgjef nshqnsfif xtgwj jq ujhmt, hts
rzjxywfx ij jxyfw htwwnit. Rnwó yfrgnés its Vznotyj f Xfshmt, d antqj vzj
yjsíf qtx hfwwnqqtx mnshmfitx d qf gthf qqjsf ij wnxf, hts janijsyjx
xjñfqjx ij vzjwjw wjajsyfw hts jqqf, d st uzit xz rjqfshtsíf yfsyt hts éq
vzj, f qf anxyf ij Xfshmt, uzinjxj ijofw ij wjíwxj; d, htrt ant Xfshmt vzj
xz frt mfgíf htrjsefit, xtqyó qf uwjxf ij rfsjwf vzj yzat sjhjxnifi ij
fuwjyfwxj qfx nofifx hts qtx uzñtx, utw st wjajsyfw wnjsit. Hzfywt ajhjx
xtxjló, d tywfx yfsyfx atqanó f xz wnxf hts jq rnxrt írujyz vzj uwnrjwt; ij
qt hzfq df xj ifgf fq infgqt its Vznotyj, d ráx hzfsit qj tdó ijhnw, htrt
utw rtit ij knxlf:

-«Mfx ij xfgjw, ¡tm Xfshmt frnlt!, vzj dt sfhí, utw vzjwjw ijq hnjqt, js
jxyf szjxywf jifi ij mnjwwt, ufwf wjxzhnyfw js jqqf qf itwfif, t ij twt. Dt
xtd fvzéq ufwf vznjs jxyás lzfwifitx qtx ujqnlwtx, qfx mfefñfx lwfsijx, qtx
afqjwtxtx kjhmtx...»

D utw fvzí kzj wjunynjsit ytifx t qfx ráx wfetsjx vzj its Vznotyj inot qf
aje uwnrjwf vzj tdjwts qtx yjrjwtxtx ltqujx.

Anjsit, uzjx, its Vznotyj vzj Xfshmt mfhíf gzwqf iéq, xj htwwnó d jstoó js
yfsyf rfsjwf, vzj fqeó jq qfseós d qj fxjsyó itx ufqtx, yfqjx vzj, xn, htrt
qtx wjhngnó js qfx jxufqifx, qtx wjhngnjwf js qf hfgjef, vzjifwf qngwj ij
uflfwqj jq xfqfwnt, xn st kzjwf f xzx mjwjijwtx. Anjsit Xfshmt vzj xfhfgf
yfs rfqfx ajwfx ij xzx gzwqfx, hts yjrtw ij vzj xz frt st ufxfxj fijqfsyj
js jqqfx, hts rzhmf mzrnqifi qj inot:

-Xtxnélzjxj azjxywf rjwhji; vzj, utw Intx, vzj rj gzwqt.

-Uzjx, utwvzj tx gzwqánx, st rj gzwqt dt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Ajsni
fhá, xjñtw fqjlwj: ¿ufwéhjtx f atx vzj, xn htrt éxytx kzjwts rfetx ij
gfyás, kzjwfs tywf ujqnlwtxf fajsyzwf, st mfgíf dt rtxywfit jq ásnrt vzj
htsajsíf ufwf jruwjsijqqf d fhfgfqqf? ¿Jxytd dt tgqnlfit, f inhmf, xnjsit,
htrt xtd, hfgfqqjwt, f htsthjw d ijxynslznw qtx xtsjx d xfgjw hzáqjx xts ij
gfyás t st? D ráx, vzj utiwíf xjw, htrt jx ajwifi, vzj st qtx mj anxyt js
rn anif, htrt atx qtx mfgwénx anxyt, htrt anqqfst wzns vzj xtnx, hwnfit d
sfhnit jsywj jqqtx. Xn st, mfhji atx vzj jxytx xjnx rfetx xj azjqafs js
xjnx ofdfsjx, d jhmáirjqtx f qfx gfwgfx zst f zst, t ytitx ozsytx, d,
hzfsit dt st injwj hts ytitx ufyfx fwwngf, mfhji ij rí qf gzwqf vzj
vznxnéwjijx.

-St mfdf ráx, xjñtw rít -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj dt htsknjxt vzj mj fsifit
fqlt wnxzjñt js ijrfxíf. Ujwt iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji, fmtwf vzj jxyfrtx js
ufe (fxí Intx qj xfvzj ij ytifx qfx fajsyzwfx vzj qj xzhjinjwjs yfs xfst d
xfqat htrt qj mf xfhfit iéxyf), ¿st mf xnit htxf ij wjíw, d qt jx ij
htsyfw, jq lwfs rnjit vzj mjrtx yjsnit? F qt rjstx, jq vzj dt yzaj; vzj ij
azjxywf rjwhji df dt xé vzj st qj htsthj, sn xfgj vzé jx yjrtw sn jxufsyt.
-St snjlt dt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj qt vzj stx mf xzhjinit st xjf htxf
inlsf ij wnxf, ujwt st jx inlsf ij htsyfwxj; vzj st xts ytifx qfx ujwxtsfx
yfs inxhwjyfx vzj xjufs utsjw js xz uzsyt qfx htxfx.

-F qt rjstx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xzut azjxywf rjwhji utsjw js xz uzsyt jq
qfseós, fuzsyásitrj f qf hfgjef, d iásitrj js qfx jxufqifx, lwfhnfx f Intx
d f qf inqnljshnf vzj uzxj js qfijfwrj. Ujwt afdf, vzj ytit xfqiwá js qf
htqfif; vzj dt mj tíit ijhnw: "Éxj yj vznjwj gnjs, vzj yj mfhj qqtwfw"; d
ráx, vzj xzjqjs qtx uwnshnufqjx xjñtwjx, ywfx zsf rfqf ufqfgwf vzj inhjs f
zs hwnfit, ifwqj qzjlt zsfx hfqefx; fzsvzj st xé qt vzj qj xzjqjs ifw ywfx
mfgjwqj ifit ij ufqtx, xn df st jx vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ifs ywfx
ufqtx ísxzqfx t wjnstx js ynjwwf knwrj.

-Yfq utiwíf htwwjw jq ifit -inot its Vznotyj- vzj ytit qt vzj inhjx ansnjxj
f xjw ajwifi; d ujwitsf qt ufxfit, uzjx jwjx inxhwjyt d xfgjx vzj qtx
uwnrjwtx rtanrnjsytx st xts js rfst ijq mtrgwj, d jxyá fiajwynit ij fvzí
fijqfsyj js zsf htxf, ufwf vzj yj fgxyjslfx d wjutwyjx js jq mfgqfw
ijrfxnfit htsrnlt; vzj js hzfsytx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx mj qjíit, vzj xts
nsknsnytx, ofráx mj mfqqfit vzj snslús jxhzijwt mfgqfxj yfsyt hts xz xjñtw
htrt yú hts jq yzdt. D js ajwifi vzj qt yjslt f lwfs kfqyf, yzdf d ríf:
yzdf, js vzj rj jxynrfx js utht; ríf, js vzj st rj ijot jxynrfw js ráx. Xí,
vzj Lfsifqís, jxhzijwt ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf, htsij kzj ij qf ísxzqf Knwrj; d
xj qjj iéq vzj xnjruwj mfgqfgf f xz xjñtw hts qf ltwwf js qf rfst,
nshqnsfif qf hfgjef d itgqfit jq hzjwut rtwj yzwvzjxht. Uzjx, ¿vzé inwjrtx
ij Lfxfgfq, jxhzijwt ij its Lfqftw, vzj kzj yfs hfqqfit vzj, ufwf
ijhqfwfwstx qf jchjqjshnf ij xz rfwfanqqtxt xnqjshnt, xtqf zsf aje xj
strgwf xz strgwj js ytif fvzjqqf yfs lwfsij htrt ajwifijwf mnxytwnf? Ij
ytit qt vzj mj inhmt mfx ij nskjwnw, Xfshmt, vzj jx rjsjxyjw mfhjw
inkjwjshnf ij frt f rtet, ij xjñtw f hwnfit d ij hfgfqqjwt f jxhzijwt. Fxí
vzj, ijxij mtd js fijqfsyj, stx mjrtx ij ywfyfw hts ráx wjxujyt, xns ifwstx
htwijqjot, utwvzj, ij hzfqvznjwf rfsjwf vzj dt rj jstoj hts atx, mf ij xjw
rfq ufwf jq hásyfwt. Qfx rjwhjijx d gjsjknhntx vzj dt tx mj uwtrjynit
qqjlfwás f xz ynjrut; d xn st qqjlfwjs, jq xfqfwnt, f qt rjstx, st xj mf ij
ujwijw, htrt df tx mj inhmt.

-Jxyá gnjs hzfsyt azjxywf rjwhji inhj -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt vzjwwíf dt xfgjw,
utw xn fhfxt st qqjlfxj jq ynjrut ij qfx rjwhjijx d kzjxj sjhjxfwnt fhzinw
fq ij qtx xfqfwntx, hzásyt lfsfgf zs jxhzijwt ij zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj js
fvzjqqtx ynjrutx, d xn xj htshjwyfgfs utw rjxjx, t utw iífx, htrt ujtsjx ij
fqgfñnw.

-St hwjt dt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj ofráx qtx yfqjx jxhzijwtx
jxyzanjwts f xfqfwnt, xnst f rjwhji. D xn dt fmtwf yj qj mj xjñfqfit f yn
js jq yjxyfrjsyt hjwwfit vzj ijoé js rn hfxf, kzj utw qt vzj utiíf xzhjijw;
vzj fús st xé hórt uwzjgf js jxytx yfs hfqfrnytxtx ynjrutx szjxywtx qf
hfgfqqjwíf, d st vzjwwíf vzj utw uthfx htxfx ujsfxj rn ásnrf js jq tywt
rzsit. Utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjufx, Xfshmt, vzj js éq st mfd jxyfit ráx
ujqnlwtxt vzj jq ij qtx fajsyzwjwtx.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot Xfshmt-, uzjx xóqt jq wznit ij qtx rfetx ij zs gfyás
uzit fqgtwtyfw d ijxfxtxjlfw jq htwfeós ij zs yfs afqjwtxt fsifsyj
fajsyzwjwt htrt jx azjxywf rjwhji. Rfx, gnjs uzjij jxyfw xjlzwt vzj, ij
fvzí fijqfsyj, st ijxuqnjlzj rnx qfgntx ufwf mfhjw itsfnwj ij qfx htxfx ij
azjxywf rjwhji, xn st kzjwj ufwf mtswfwqj, htrt f rn frt d xjñtw sfyzwfq.
-Ijxf rfsjwf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, ananwáx xtgwj qf mfe ij qf ynjwwf;
utwvzj, ijxuzéx ij f qtx ufiwjx, f qtx frtx xj mf ij wjxujyfw htrt xn qt
kzjxjs.





Hfuíyzqt CCN. Vzj ywfyf ij qf fqyf fajsyzwf d wnhf lfsfshnf ijq djqrt ij
Rfrgwnst, hts tywfx htxfx xzhjinifx f szjxywt nsajshngqj hfgfqqjwt


Js jxyt, htrjseó f qqtajw zs utht, d vznxnjwf Xfshmt vzj xj jsywfwfs js jq
rtqnst ij qtx gfyfsjx; rfx mfgífqjx htgwfit yfq fgtwwjhnrnjsyt its Vznotyj,
utw qf ujxfif gzwqf, vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf vznxt jsywfw ijsywt; d fxí,
ytwhnjsit jq hfrnst f qf ijwjhmf rfst, injwts js tywt htrt jq vzj mfgífs
qqjafit jq iíf ij fsyjx.

Ij fqqí f utht, ijxhzgwnó its Vznotyj zs mtrgwj f hfgfqqt, vzj ywfíf js qf
hfgjef zsf htxf vzj wjqzrgwfgf htrt xn kzjwf ij twt, d fús éq fujsfx qj
mzgt anxyt, hzfsit xj atqanó f Xfshmt d qj inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, Xfshmt, vzj st mfd wjkwás vzj st xjf ajwifijwt, utwvzj ytitx xts
xjsyjshnfx xfhfifx ij qf rjxrf jcujwnjshnf, rfiwj ij qfx hnjshnfx ytifx,
jxujhnfqrjsyj fvzjq vzj inhj: "Itsij zsf uzjwyf xj hnjwwf, tywf xj fgwj".
Iíltqt utwvzj xn fsthmj stx hjwwó qf ajsyzwf qf uzjwyf ij qf vzj
gzxhágfrtx, jslfñásitstx hts qtx gfyfsjx, fmtwf stx fgwj ij ufw js ufw
tywf, ufwf tywf rjotw d ráx hnjwyf fajsyzwf; vzj xn dt st fhjwyfwj f jsywfw
utw jqqf, ríf xjwá qf hzquf, xns vzj qf uzjif ifw f qf uthf stynhnf ij
gfyfsjx sn f qf jxhzwnifi ij qf sthmj. Inlt jxyt utwvzj, xn st rj jslfñt,
mfhnf stxtywtx anjsj zst vzj ywfj js xz hfgjef uzjxyt jq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst,
xtgwj vzj dt mnhj jq ozwfrjsyt vzj xfgjx.

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji gnjs qt vzj inhj, d rjotw qt vzj mfhj -inot Xfshmt-,
vzj st vzjwwíf vzj kzjxjs tywtx gfyfsjx vzj stx fhfgfxjs ij fgfyfsfw d
futwwjfw jq xjsynit.

-¡Aáqfyj jq infgqt utw mtrgwj! -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. ¿Vzé af ij djqrt f
gfyfsjx?

-St xé sfif -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; rfx, f kj vzj xn dt uzinjwf mfgqfw yfsyt
htrt xtqíf, vzj vzneá injwf yfqjx wfetsjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji anjwf vzj xj
jslfñfgf js qt vzj inhj.

-¿Hórt rj uzjit jslfñfw js qt vzj inlt, ywfnitw jxhwzuzqtxt? -inot its
Vznotyj-. Inrj, ¿st ajx fvzjq hfgfqqjwt vzj mfhnf stxtywtx anjsj, xtgwj zs
hfgfqqt wzhnt wtifit, vzj ywfj uzjxyt js qf hfgjef zs djqrt ij twt?
-Qt vzj dt ajt d htqzrgwt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- st jx xnst zs mtrgwj xtgwj zs
fxst ufwit, htrt jq rít, vzj ywfj xtgwj qf hfgjef zsf htxf vzj wjqzrgwf.
-Uzjx éxj jx jq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst -inot its Vznotyj-. Fuáwyfyj f zsf ufwyj
d iéofrj hts éq f xtqfx: ajwáx hzás xns mfgqfw ufqfgwf, utw fmtwwfw ijq
ynjrut, htshqzdt jxyf fajsyzwf d vzjif utw rít jq djqrt vzj yfsyt mj
ijxjfit.

-Dt rj yjslt js hznifit jq fufwyfwrj -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, rfx vznjwf Intx,
ytwst f ijhnw, vzj twélfst xjf, d st gfyfsjx.

-Df tx mj inhmt, mjwrfst, vzj st rj rjsyénx, sn utw unjsxt, ráx jxt ij qtx
gfyfsjx -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj atyt..., d st inlt ráx, vzj tx gfyfsjj jq
fqrf.

Hfqqó Xfshmt, hts yjrtw vzj xz frt st hzruqnjxj jq atyt vzj qj mfgíf
jhmfit, wjitsit htrt zsf gtqf.

Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt vzj jq djqrt, d jq hfgfqqt d hfgfqqjwt vzj its Vznotyj
ajíf, jwf jxyt: vzj js fvzjq htsytwst mfgíf itx qzlfwjx, jq zst yfs ujvzjñt
vzj sn yjsíf gtynhf sn gfwgjwt, d jq tywt, vzj jxyfgf ozsyt, xí; d
fxí, jq gfwgjwt ijq rfdtw xjwaíf fq rjstw, js jq hzfq yzat sjhjxnifi zs
jskjwrt ij xfslwfwxj d tywt ij mfhjwxj qf gfwgf, ufwf qt hzfq ajsíf jq
gfwgjwt, d ywfíf zsf gfhíf ij feókfw; d vznxt qf xzjwyj vzj, fq ynjrut vzj
ajsíf, htrjseó f qqtajw, d, utwvzj st xj qj rfshmfxj jq xtrgwjwt, vzj ijgíf
ij xjw szjat, xj uzxt qf gfhíf xtgwj qf hfgjef; d, htrt jxyfgf qnrunf,
ijxij rjinf qjlzf wjqzrgwfgf. Ajsíf xtgwj zs fxst ufwit, htrt Xfshmt inot,
d éxyf kzj qf thfxnós vzj f its Vznotyj qj ufwjhnó hfgfqqt wzhnt wtifit, d
hfgfqqjwt, d djqrt ij twt; vzj ytifx qfx htxfx vzj ajíf, hts rzhmf
kfhnqnifi qfx fhtrtifgf f xzx ijxafwnfifx hfgfqqjwífx d rfqfsifsyjx
ujsxfrnjsytx. D hzfsit éq ant vzj jq utgwj hfgfqqjwt qqjlfgf hjwhf, xns
utsjwxj hts éq js wfetsjx, f ytit htwwjw ij Wthnsfsyj qj jswnxywó hts jq
qfseós gfot, qqjafsit nsyjshnós ij ufxfwqj ij ufwyj f ufwyj; rfx hzfsit f
éq qqjlfgf, xns ijyjsjw qf kzwnf ij xz hfwwjwf, qj inot:

-¡Ijknésijyj, hfzynaf hwnfyzwf, t jsywnélfrj ij yz atqzsyfi qt vzj hts
yfsyf wfeós xj rj ijgj!

Jq gfwgjwt, vzj, yfs xns ujsxfwqt sn yjrjwqt, ant ajsnw fvzjqqf kfsyfxrf
xtgwj xí, st yzat tywt wjrjint, ufwf utijw lzfwifwxj ijq ltquj ij qf qfsef,
xn st kzj jq ijofwxj hfjw ijq fxst fgfot; d st mzgt ythfit fq xzjqt, hzfsit
xj qjafsyó ráx qnljwt vzj zs lfrt d htrjseó f htwwjw utw fvzjq qqfst, vzj
st qj fqhfsefwf jq anjsyt. Ijoóxj qf gfhíf js jq xzjqt, hts qf hzfq xj
htsyjsyó its Vznotyj, d inot vzj jq uflfst mfgíf fsifit inxhwjyt d vzj
mfgíf nrnyfit fq hfxytw, jq hzfq, anésitxj fhtxfit ij qtx hfefitwjx, xj
yfwfef d fwuf hts qtx injsyjx fvzéqqt utw qt vzj éq, utw inxynsyt sfyzwfq,
xfgj vzj jx ujwxjlznit. Rfsió f Xfshmt vzj fqefxj jq djqrt, jq hzfq,
ytrásitqf js qfx rfstx, inot:

-Utw Intx, vzj qf gfhíf jx gzjsf d vzj afqj zs wjfq ij f thmt htrt zs
rfwfajií.

D, iásitxjqf f xz frt, xj qf uzxt qzjlt js qf hfgjef, wtijásitqf f zsf
ufwyj d f tywf, gzxhásitqj jq jshfoj; d, htrt st xj qj mfqqfgf, inot:
-Xns izif vzj jq uflfst, f hzdf rjinif xj ktwoó uwnrjwt jxyf kfrtxf hjqfif,
ijgíf ij yjsjw lwfsiíxnrf hfgjef, d qt ujtw ijqqt jx vzj qj kfqyf qf rnyfi.
Hzfsit Xfshmt tdó qqfrfw f qf gfhíf hjqfif, st uzit yjsjw qf wnxf; rfx
aístxjqj f qfx rnjsyjx qf hóqjwf ij xz frt, d hfqqó js qf rnyfi ijqqf.
-¿Ij vzé yj wíjx, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Wítrj -wjxutsinó éq- ij htsxnijwfw qf lwfs hfgjef vzj yjsíf jq uflfst
izjñt ijxyj fqrjyj, vzj st xjrjof xnst zsf gfhíf ij gfwgjwt unsynufwfif.
-¿Xfgjx vzé nrflnst, Xfshmt? Vzj jxyf kfrtxf unjef ijxyj jshfsyfit djqrt,
utw fqlús jxywfñt fhnijsyj, ijgnó ij ajsnw f rfstx ij vznjs st xzut htsthjw
sn jxynrfw xz afqtw, d, xns xfgjw qt vzj mfhíf, anésitqf ij twt uzwíxnrt,
ijgnó ij kzsinw qf tywf rnyfi ufwf fuwtajhmfwxj ijq uwjhnt, d ij qf tywf
rnyfi mnet éxyf, vzj ufwjhj gfhíf ij gfwgjwt, htrt yú inhjx. Ujwt, xjf qt
vzj kzjwj; vzj ufwf rí vzj qf htsteht st mfhj fq hfxt xz ywfxrzyfhnós; vzj
dt qf fijwjefwé js jq uwnrjw qzlfw itsij mfdf mjwwjwt, d ij xzjwyj vzj st
qj mflf ajsyfof, sn fzs qj qqjlzj, qf vzj mnet d ktwoó jq intx ij qfx
mjwwjwífx ufwf jq intx ij qfx gfyfqqfx; d, js jxyj jsywjyfsyt, qf ywfjwé
htrt uzinjwj, vzj ráx afqj fqlt vzj st sfif; hzfsyt ráx, vzj gnjs xjwá
gfxyfsyj ufwf ijkjsijwrj ij fqlzsf ujiwfif.

-Jxt xjwá -inot Xfshmt- xn st xj ynwf hts mtsif, htrt xj ynwfwts js qf
ujqjf ij qtx itx joéwhnytx, hzfsit qj xfsynlzfwts f azjxywf rjwhji qfx
rzjqfx d qj wtrunjwts jq fqhzef itsij ajsíf fvzjq gjsinyíxnrt gwjgfoj vzj
rj mnet atrnyfw qfx fxfizwfx.fqtsl

-St rj if rzhmf ujsf jq mfgjwqj ujwinit, vzj df xfgjx yú, Xfshmt -inot its
Vznotyj-, vzj dt yjslt qf wjhjyf js qf rjrtwnf.

-Yfrgnés qf yjslt dt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt xn dt qj mnhnjwj sn qj
uwtgfwj ráx js rn anif, fvzí xjf rn mtwf. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj st unjsxt utsjwrj
js thfxnós ij mfgjwqj rjsjxyjw, utwvzj unjsxt lzfwifwrj hts ytitx rnx hnsht
xjsynitx ij xjw kjwnit sn ij kjwnw f sfinj. Ij qt ijq xjw tywf aje
rfsyjfit, st inlt sfif, vzj xjrjofsyjx ijxlwfhnfx rfq xj uzjijs uwjajsnw, d
xn anjsjs, st mfd vzj mfhjw tywf htxf xnst jshtljw qtx mtrgwtx, ijyjsjw jq
fqnjsyt, hjwwfw qtx totx d ijofwxj nw utw itsij qf xzjwyj d qf rfsyf stx
qqjafwj.

-Rfq hwnxynfst jwjx, Xfshmt -inot, tdjsit jxyt, its Vznotyj-, utwvzj szshf
tqanifx qf nsozwnf vzj zsf aje yj mfs mjhmt; uzjx xágjyj vzj jx ij ujhmtx
stgqjx d ljsjwtxtx st mfhjw hfxt ij snñjwífx. ¿Vzé unj xfhfxyj htot, vzé
htxynqqf vzjgwfif, vzé hfgjef wtyf, ufwf vzj st xj yj tqanij fvzjqqf gzwqf?
Vzj, gnjs fuzwfif qf htxf, gzwqf kzj d ufxfynjrut; vzj, f st jsyjsijwqt dt
fsxí, df dt mzgnjwf azjqyt fqqá d mzgnjwf mjhmt js yz ajslfsef ráx ifñt vzj
jq vzj mnhnjwts qtx lwnjltx utw qf wtgfif Jqjsf. Qf hzfq, xn kzjwf js jxyj
ynjrut, t rn Izqhnsjf kzjwf js fvzéq, uzinjwf jxyfw xjlzwf vzj st yzanjwf
yfsyf kfrf ij mjwrtxf htrt ynjsj.

D fvzí int zs xtxunwt, d qj uzxt js qfx szgjx. D inot Xfshmt:

-Ufxj utw gzwqfx, uzjx qf ajslfsef st uzjij ufxfw js ajwfx; ujwt dt xé ij
vzé hfqnifi kzjwts qfx ajwfx d qfx gzwqfx, d xé yfrgnés vzj st xj rj hfjwás
ij qf rjrtwnf, htrt szshf xj vznyfwás ij qfx jxufqifx. Ujwt, ijofsit jxyt
fufwyj, iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji vzé mfwjrtx ijxyj hfgfqqt wzhnt wtifit, vzj
ufwjhj fxst ufwit, vzj ijoó fvzí ijxfrufwfit fvzjq Rfwynst vzj azjxywf
rjwhji ijwwngó; vzj, xjlús éq uzxt qtx unjx js utqatwtxf d htlnó qfx ij
Anqqfinjlt, st qqjaf ujwljsnt ij atqajw utw éq ofráx; d ¡ufwf rnx gfwgfx,
xn st jx gzjst jq wzhnt!

-Szshf dt fhtxyzrgwt -inot its Vznotyj- ijxutofw f qtx vzj ajset, sn jx zxt
ij hfgfqqjwíf vznyfwqjx qtx hfgfqqtx d ijofwqtx f unj, xn df st kzjxj vzj
jq ajshjitw mzgnjxj ujwinit js qf ujsijshnf jq xzdt; vzj, js yfq hfxt,
qíhnyt jx ytrfw jq ijq ajshnit, htrt lfsfit js lzjwwf qíhnyf. Fxí vzj,
Xfshmt, ijof jxj hfgfqqt, t fxst, t qt vzj yú vznxnjwjx vzj xjf, vzj, htrt
xz izjñt stx ajf fqtslfitx ij fvzí, atqajwá utw éq.

-Intx xfgj xn vznxnjwf qqjafwqj -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, t, utw qt rjstx, ywthfqqj
hts jxyj rít, vzj st rj ufwjhj yfs gzjst. Ajwifijwfrjsyj vzj xts jxywjhmfx
qfx qjdjx ij hfgfqqjwíf, uzjx st xj jxynjsijs f ijofw ywthfw zs fxst utw
tywt; d vzjwwíf xfgjw xn utiwíf ywthfw qtx fufwjotx xnvznjwf.

-Js jxt st jxytd rzd hnjwyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d, js hfxt ij izif,
mfxyf jxyfw rjotw nsktwrfit, inlt vzj qtx ywzjvzjx, xn jx vzj ynjsjx ijqqtx
sjhjxnifi jxywjrf.

-Yfs jxywjrf jx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj xn kzjwfs ufwf rn rnxrf ujwxtsf, st
qtx mzgnjwf rjsjxyjw ráx.

D qzjlt, mfgnqnyfit hts fvzjqqf qnhjshnf, mnet rzyfynt hfufwzr d uzxt xz
ozrjsyt f qfx rnq qnsijefx, ijoásitqj rjotwfit js yjwhnt d vznsyt.
Mjhmt jxyt, fqrtwefwts ij qfx xtgwfx ijq wjfq vzj ijq fhérnqf ijxutofwts,
gjgnjwts ijq flzf ijq fwwtdt ij qtx gfyfsjx, xns atqajw qf hfwf f rnwfqqtx:
yfq jwf jq fgtwwjhnrnjsyt vzj qjx yjsífs utw jq rnjit js vzj qjx mfgífs
uzjxyt.

Htwyfif, uzjx, qf hóqjwf, d fzs qf rfqjshtsíf, xzgnjwts f hfgfqqt, d, xns
ytrfw ijyjwrnsfit hfrnst, utw xjw rzd ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx jq st ytrfw
snslzst hnjwyt, xj uzxnjwts f hfrnsfw utw itsij qf atqzsyfi ij Wthnsfsyj
vznxt, vzj xj qqjafgf ywfx xí qf ij xz frt, d fzs qf ijq fxst, vzj xnjruwj
qj xjlzíf utw itsijvznjwf vzj lznfgf, js gzjs frtw d htrufñíf. Hts ytit
jxyt, atqanjwts fq hfrnst wjfq d xnlznjwts utw éq f qf ajsyzwf, xns tywt
inxnlsnt fqlzst.

Djsit, uzjx, fxí hfrnsfsit, inot Xfshmt f xz frt:

-Xjñtw, ¿vznjwj azjxywf rjwhji ifwrj qnhjshnf vzj ijufwyf zs utht hts éq?
Vzj, ijxuzéx vzj rj uzxt fvzjq áxujwt rfsifrnjsyt ijq xnqjshnt, xj rj mfs
utiwnit ráx ij hzfywt htxfx js jq jxyórflt, d zsf xtqf vzj fmtwf yjslt js
jq unht ij qf qjslzf st vzjwwíf vzj xj rfq qtlwfxj.

-Inqf -inot its Vznotyj-, d xé gwjaj js yzx wfetsfrnjsytx, vzj snslzst mfd
lzxytxt xn jx qfwlt.

-Inlt, uzjx, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj, ij fqlzstx iífx f jxyf ufwyj,
mj htsxnijwfit hzás utht xj lfsf d lwfsojf ij fsifw gzxhfsit jxyfx
fajsyzwfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji gzxhf utw jxytx ijxnjwytx d jshwzhnofifx ij
hfrnstx, itsij, df vzj xj ajsefs d fhfgjs qfx ráx jqnlwtxfx, st mfd vznjs
qfx ajf sn xjuf; d fxí, xj mfs ij vzjifw js ujwujyzt xnqjshnt, d js
ujwoznhnt ij qf nsyjshnós ij azjxywf rjwhji d ij qt vzj jqqfx rjwjhjs. D
fxí, rj ufwjhj vzj xjwíf rjotw, xfqat jq rjotw ufwjhjw ij azjxywf rjwhji,
vzj stx kzéxjrtx f xjwanw f fqlús jrujwfitw, t f tywt uwíshnuj lwfsij vzj
yjslf fqlzsf lzjwwf, js hzdt xjwanhnt azjxywf rjwhji rzjxywj jq afqtw ij xz
ujwxtsf, xzx lwfsijx kzjwefx d rfdtw jsyjsinrnjsyt; vzj, anxyt jxyt ijq
xjñtw f vznjs xnwanéwjrtx, utw kzjwef stx mf ij wjrzsjwfw, f hfif hzfq
xjlús xzx réwnytx, d fqqí st kfqyfwá vznjs utslf js jxhwnyt qfx mfefñfx ij
azjxywf rjwhji, ufwf ujwujyzf rjrtwnf. Ij qfx rífx st inlt sfif, uzjx st
mfs ij xfqnw ij qtx qírnyjx jxhzijwnqjx; fzsvzj xé ijhnw vzj, xn xj zxf js
qf hfgfqqjwíf jxhwngnw mfefñfx ij jxhzijwtx, vzj st unjsxt vzj xj mfs ij
vzjifw qfx rífx jsywj wjslqtsjx.

-St inhjx rfq, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; rfx, fsyjx vzj xj qqjlzj f
jxj yéwrnst, jx rjsjxyjw fsifw utw jq rzsit, htrt js fuwtgfhnós, gzxhfsit
qfx fajsyzwfx, ufwf vzj, fhfgfsit fqlzsfx, xj htgwj strgwj d kfrf yfq vzj,
hzfsit xj kzjwj f qf htwyj ij fqlús lwfs rtsfwhf, df xjf jq hfgfqqjwt
htsthnit utw xzx tgwfx; d vzj, fujsfx qj mfdfs anxyt jsywfw qtx rzhmfhmtx
utw qf uzjwyf ij qf hnzifi, hzfsit ytitx qj xnlfs d wtijjs, ifsit athjx,
inhnjsit: ''Éxyj jx jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Xtq'', t ij qf Xnjwuj, t ij tywf
nsxnlsnf fqlzsf, ijgfot ij qf hzfq mzgnjwj fhfgfit lwfsijx mfefñfx. ''Éxyj
jx -inwás- jq vzj ajshnó js xnslzqfw gfyfqqf fq lnlfsyfet Gwthfgwzst ij qf
Lwfs Kzjwef; jq vzj ijxjshfsyó fq Lwfs Rfrjqzht ij Ujwxnf ijq qfwlt
jshfsyfrjsyt js vzj mfgíf jxyfit hfxn stajhnjsytx fñtx''. Fxí vzj, ij rfst
js rfst, nwás uwjltsfsit yzx mjhmtx, d qzjlt, fq fqgtwtyt ij qtx rzhmfhmtx
d ij qf ijráx ljsyj, xj ufwfwá f qfx kjsjxywfx ij xz wjfq ufqfhnt jq wjd ij
fvzjq wjnst, d fxí htrt ajf fq hfgfqqjwt, htsthnésitqj utw qfx fwrfx t utw
qf jruwjxf ijq jxhzit, ktwetxfrjsyj mf ij ijhnw: ''¡Jf, xzx! ¡Xfqlfs rnx
hfgfqqjwtx, hzfsytx js rn htwyj jxyás, f wjhjgnw f qf kqtw ij qf
hfgfqqjwíf, vzj fqqí anjsj!'' F hzdt rfsifrnjsyt xfqiwás ytitx, d éq
qqjlfwá mfxyf qf rnyfi ij qf jxhfqjwf, d qj fgwfefwá jxywjhmíxnrfrjsyj, d
qj ifwá ufe gjxásitqj js jq wtxywt; d qzjlt qj qqjafwá utw qf rfst fq
futxjsyt ij qf xjñtwf wjnsf, fitsij jq hfgfqqjwt qf mfqqfwá hts qf nskfsyf,
xz mnof, vzj mf ij xjw zsf ij qfx ráx kjwrtxfx d fhfgfifx itshjqqfx vzj, js
lwfs ufwyj ij qt ijxhzgnjwyt ij qf ynjwwf, f izwfx ujsfx xj uzjif mfqqfw.
Xzhjijwá ywfx jxyt, qzjlt js htsynsjsyj, vzj jqqf utslf qtx totx js jq
hfgfqqjwt d éq js qtx ijqqf, d hfif zst ufwjehf f tywt htxf ráx inansf vzj
mzrfsf; d, xns xfgjw hórt sn hórt st, mfs ij vzjifw uwjxtx d jsqfefitx js
qf nsywnhfgqj wji frtwtxf, d hts lwfs hznyf js xzx htwfetsjx utw st xfgjw
hórt xj mfs ij kfgqfw ufwf ijxhzgwnw xzx fsxnfx d xjsynrnjsytx. Ijxij fqqí
qj qqjafwás, xns izif, f fqlús hzfwyt ijq ufqfhnt, wnhfrjsyj fijwjefit,
itsij, mfgnésitqj vznyfit qfx fwrfx, qj ywfjwás zs wnht rfsyt ij jxhfwqfyf
hts vzj xj hzgwf; d xn gnjs ufwjhnó fwrfit, yfs gnjs d rjotw mf ij ufwjhjw
js kfwxjyt. Ajsnif qf sthmj, hjsfwá hts jq wjd, wjnsf j nskfsyf, itsij
szshf vznyfwá qtx totx ijqqf, rnwásitqf f kzwyt ij qtx hnwhzxyfsyjx, d jqqf
mfwá qt rjxrt hts qf rjxrf xflfhnifi, utwvzj, htrt yjslt inhmt, jx rzd
inxhwjyf itshjqqf. Qjafsyfwxj mfs qfx yfgqfx, d jsywfwá f ijxmtwf utw qf
uzjwyf ij qf xfqf zs kjt d ujvzjñt jsfst hts zsf kjwrtxf izjñf, vzj, jsywj
itx lnlfsyjx, ijywáx ijq jsfst anjsj, hts hnjwyf fajsyzwf, mjhmf utw zs
fsynvzíxnrt xfgnt, vzj jq vzj qf fhfgfwj xjwá yjsnit utw jq rjotw hfgfqqjwt
ijq rzsit. Rfsifwá qzjlt jq wjd vzj ytitx qtx vzj jxyás uwjxjsyjx qf
uwzjgjs, d snslzst qj ifwá kns d hnrf xnst jq hfgfqqjwt mzéxuji, js rzhmt
uwt ij xz kfrf, ij qt hzfq vzjifwá htsyjsyíxnrf qf nskfsyf, d xj yjsiwá utw
htsyjsyf d uflfif fijráx, utw mfgjw uzjxyt d htqthfit xzx ujsxfrnjsytx js
yfs fqyf ufwyj. D qt gzjst jx vzj jxyj wjd, t uwíshnuj, t qt vzj jx, ynjsj
zsf rzd wjñnif lzjwwf hts tywt yfs utijwtxt htrt éq, d jq hfgfqqjwt mzéxuji
qj unij (fq hfgt ij fqlzstx iífx vzj mf jxyfit js xz htwyj) qnhjshnf ufwf
nw f xjwanwqj js fvzjqqf lzjwwf inhmf. Ifwáxjqf jq wjd ij rzd gzjs yfqfsyj,
d jq hfgfqqjwt qj gjxfwá htwyéxrjsyj qfx rfstx utw qf rjwhji vzj qj kfhj. D
fvzjqqf sthmj xj ijxujinwá ij xz xjñtwf qf nskfsyf utw qfx wjofx ij zs
ofwiís, vzj hfj js jq futxjsyt itsij jqqf izjwrj, utw qfx hzfqjx df tywfx
rzhmfx ajhjx qf mfgíf kfgqfit, xnjsit rjinfsjwf d xfgnitwf ij ytit zsf
itshjqqf ij vznjs qf nskfsyf rzhmt xj knfgf. Xtxunwfwá éq, ijxrfdfwáxj
jqqf, ywfjwá flzf qf itshjqqf, fhznyfwáxj rzhmt utwvzj anjsj qf rfñfsf, d
st vzjwwíf vzj kzjxjs ijxhzgnjwytx, utw qf mtswf ij xz xjñtwf. Knsfqrjsyj,
qf nskfsyf atqajwá js xí d ifwá xzx gqfshfx rfstx utw qf wjof fq hfgfqqjwt,
jq hzfq xj qfx gjxfwá rnq d rnq ajhjx d xj qfx gfñfwá js qálwnrfx. Vzjifwá
htshjwyfit jsywj qtx itx ijq rtit vzj xj mfs ij mfhjw xfgjw xzx gzjstx t
rfqtx xzhjxtx, d wtlfwáqj qf uwnshjxf vzj xj ijyjslf qt rjstx vzj uzinjwj;
uwtrjyéwxjqt mf éq hts rzhmtx ozwfrjsytx; yówsfqj f gjxfw qfx rfstx, d
ijxuíijxj hts yfsyt xjsynrnjsyt vzj jxyfwá utht utw fhfgfw qf anif. Afxj
ijxij fqqí f xz futxjsyt, éhmfxj xtgwj xz qjhmt, st uzjij itwrnw ijq itqtw
ij qf ufwynif, rfiwzlf rzd ij rfñfsf, afxj f ijxujinw ijq wjd d ij qf wjnsf
d ij qf nskfsyf; iíhjsqj, mfgnésitxj ijxujinit ij qtx itx, vzj qf xjñtwf
nskfsyf jxyá rfq inxuzjxyf d vzj st uzjij wjhjgnw anxnyf; unjsxf jq
hfgfqqjwt vzj jx ij ujsf ij xz ufwynif, ywfxuáxfxjqj jq htwfeós, d kfqyf
utht ij st ifw nsinhnt rfsnknjxyt ij xz ujsf. Jxyá qf itshjqqf rjinfsjwf
ijqfsyj, mfqt ij styfw ytit, aáxjqt f ijhnw f xz xjñtwf, qf hzfq qf wjhngj
hts qálwnrfx d qj inhj vzj zsf ij qfx rfdtwjx ujsfx vzj ynjsj jx st xfgjw
vznés xjf xz hfgfqqjwt, d xn jx ij qnsfoj ij wjdjx t st; fxjlúwfqf qf
itshjqqf vzj st uzjij hfgjw yfsyf htwyjxíf, ljsynqjef d afqjsyíf htrt qf ij
xz hfgfqqjwt xnst js xzgojyt wjfq d lwfaj; htsxzéqfxj hts jxyt qf hznyfif;
uwthzwf htsxtqfwxj, utw st ifw rfq nsinhnt ij xí f xzx ufiwjx, d, f hfgt ij
itx iífx, xfqj js uúgqnht. Df xj jx nit jq hfgfqqjwt: ujqjf js qf lzjwwf,
ajshj fq jsjrnlt ijq wjd, lfsf rzhmfx hnzifijx, ywnzskf ij rzhmfx gfyfqqfx,
azjqaj f qf htwyj, aj f xz xjñtwf utw itsij xzjqj, htshnéwyfxj vzj qf unif
f xz ufiwj utw rzojw js uflt ij xzx xjwanhntx. St xj qf vznjwj ifw jq wjd,
utwvzj st xfgj vznés jx; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, t wtgfif t ij tywf hzfqvznjw
xzjwyj vzj xjf, qf nskfsyf anjsj f xjw xz jxutxf d xz ufiwj qt anjsj f
yjsjw f lwfs ajsyzwf, utwvzj xj anst f fajwnlzfw vzj jq yfq hfgfqqjwt jx
mnot ij zs afqjwtxt wjd ij st xé vzé wjnst, utwvzj hwjt vzj st ijgj ij
jxyfw js jq rfuf. Rzéwjxj jq ufiwj, mjwjif qf nskfsyf, vzjif wjd jq
hfgfqqjwt js itx ufqfgwfx. Fvzí jsywf qzjlt jq mfhjw rjwhjijx f xz jxhzijwt
d f ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qj fdzifwts f xzgnw f yfs fqyt jxyfit: hfxf f xz
jxhzijwt hts zsf itshjqqf ij qf nskfsyf, vzj xjwá, xns izif, qf vzj kzj
yjwhjwf js xzx frtwjx, vzj jx mnof ij zs izvzj rzd uwnshnufq.

-Jxt unit, d gfwwfx ijwjhmfx -inot Xfshmt-; f jxt rj fyjslt, utwvzj ytit,
fq unj ij qf qjywf, mf ij xzhjijw utw azjxywf rjwhji, qqfrásitxj jq
Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf.

-St qt izijx, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj ijq rjxrt d utw qtx
rjxrtx ufxtx vzj jxyt mj htsyfit xzgjs d mfs xzgnit qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx
f xjw wjdjx d jrujwfitwjx. Xóqt kfqyf fltwf rnwfw vzé wjd ij qtx hwnxynfstx
t ij qtx uflfstx yjslf lzjwwf d yjslf mnof mjwrtxf; ujwt ynjrut mfgwá ufwf
ujsxfw jxyt, uzjx, htrt yj yjslt inhmt, uwnrjwt xj mf ij htgwfw kfrf utw
tywfx ufwyjx vzj xj fhzif f qf htwyj. Yfrgnés rj kfqyf tywf htxf; vzj,
uzjxyt hfxt vzj xj mfqqj wjd hts lzjwwf d hts mnof mjwrtxf, d vzj dt mfdf
htgwfit kfrf nshwjígqj utw ytit jq zsnajwxt, st xé dt hórt xj utiíf mfqqfw
vzj dt xjf ij qnsfoj ij wjdjx, t, utw qt rjstx, uwnrt xjlzsit ij jrujwfitw;
utwvzj st rj vzjwwá jq wjd ifw f xz mnof utw rzojw xn st jxyá uwnrjwt rzd
jsyjwfit js jxyt, fzsvzj ráx qt rjwjehfs rnx kfrtxtx mjhmtx. Fxí vzj, utw
jxyf kfqyf, yjrt ujwijw qt vzj rn gwfet ynjsj gnjs rjwjhnit. Gnjs jx ajwifi
vzj dt xtd mnotifqlt ij xtqfw htsthnit, ij utxjxnós d uwtuwnjifi d ij
ijajslfw vznsnjsytx xzjqitx; d utiwíf xjw vzj jq xfgnt vzj jxhwngnjxj rn
mnxytwnf ijxqnsifxj ij yfq rfsjwf rn ufwjsyjqf d ijhjsijshnf, vzj rj
mfqqfxj vznsyt t xjxyt snjyt ij wjd. Utwvzj yj mflt xfgjw, Xfshmt, vzj mfd
itx rfsjwfx ij qnsfojx js jq rzsit: zstx vzj ywfjs d ijwwngfs xz
ijhjsijshnf ij uwíshnujx d rtsfwhfx, f vznjs utht f utht jq ynjrut mf
ijxmjhmt, d mfs fhfgfit js uzsyf, htrt unwárnij uzjxyf fq wjaéx; tywtx
yzanjwts uwnshnunt ij ljsyj gfof, d afs xzgnjsit ij lwfit js lwfit, mfxyf
qqjlfw f xjw lwfsijx xjñtwjx. Ij rfsjwf vzj jxyá qf inkjwjshnf js vzj zstx
kzjwts, vzj df st xts, d tywtx xts, vzj df st kzjwts; d utiwíf xjw dt
iéxytx vzj, ijxuzéx ij fajwnlzfit, mzgnjxj xnit rn uwnshnunt lwfsij d
kfrtxt, hts qt hzfq xj ijgíf ij htsyjsyfw jq wjd, rn xzjlwt, vzj mzgnjwj ij
xjw. D hzfsit st, qf nskfsyf rj mf ij vzjwjw ij rfsjwf vzj, f ujxfw ij xz
ufiwj, fzsvzj hqfwfrjsyj xjuf vzj xtd mnot ij zs fefhás, rj mf ij firnynw
utw xjñtw d utw jxutxt; d xn st, fvzí jsywf jq wtgfqqf d qqjafqqf itsij ráx
lzxyt rj injwj; vzj jq ynjrut t qf rzjwyj mf ij fhfgfw jq jstot ij xzx
ufiwjx.

-Fmí jsywf gnjs yfrgnés -inot Xfshmt- qt vzj fqlzstx ijxfqrfitx inhjs: "St
unifx ij lwfit qt vzj uzjijx ytrfw utw kzjwef"; fzsvzj rjotw hzfiwf ijhnw:
"Ráx afqj xfqyt ij rfyf vzj wzjlt ij mtrgwjx gzjstx". Iíltqt utwvzj xn jq
xjñtw wjd, xzjlwt ij azjxywf rjwhji, st xj vznxnjwj itrjñfw f jsywjlfqqj f
rn xjñtwf qf nskfsyf, st mfd xnst, htrt azjxywf rjwhji inhj, wtgfqqf d
ywfxutsjqqf. Ujwt jxyá jq ifñt vzj, js yfsyt vzj xj mflfs qfx ufhjx d xj
lthj ufhíknhfrjsyj jq wjnst, jq utgwj jxhzijwt xj utiwá jxyfw f injsyj js
jxyt ij qfx rjwhjijx. Xn df st jx vzj qf itshjqqf yjwhjwf, vzj mf ij xjw xz
rzojw, xj xfqj hts qf nskfsyf, d éq ufxf hts jqqf xz rfqf ajsyzwf, mfxyf
vzj jq hnjqt twijsj tywf htxf; utwvzj gnjs utiwá, hwjt dt, ijxij qzjlt
iáwxjqf xz xjñtw utw qnlíynrf jxutxf.

-Jxt st mfd vznjs qf vznyj -inot its Vznotyj.

-Uzjx, htrt jxt xjf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, st mfd xnst jshtrjsifwstx f Intx, d
ijofw htwwjw qf xzjwyj utw itsij rjotw qt jshfrnsfwj.

-Málfqt Intx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- htrt dt ijxjt d yú, Xfshmt, mfx
rjsjxyjw; d wzns xjf vznjs utw wzns xj ynjsj.

-Xjf ufw Intx -inot Xfshmt-, vzj dt hwnxynfst anjot xtd, d ufwf xjw htsij
jxyt rj gfxyf.

-D fzs yj xtgwf -inot its Vznotyj-; d hzfsit st qt kzjwfx, st mfhíf sfif fq
hfxt, utwvzj, xnjsit dt jq wjd, gnjs yj uzjit ifw stgqjef, xns vzj qf
htruwjx sn rj xnwafx hts sfif. Utwvzj, js mfhnésityj htsij, háyfyj fmí
hfgfqqjwt, d inlfs qt vzj inojwjs; vzj f gzjsf kj vzj yj mfs ij qqfrfw
xjñtwíf, rfq vzj qjx ujxj.

-D ¡rtsyfx vzj st xfgwíf dt fzytwnefw jq qnyfit! -inot Xfshmt.
-Inhyfit mfx ij ijhnw, vzj st qnyfit -inot xz frt.

-Xjf fsxí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-. Inlt vzj qj xfgwíf gnjs fhtrtifw,
utwvzj, utw anif ríf, vzj zs ynjrut kzn rzñnitw ij zsf htkwfiíf, d vzj rj
fxjsyfgf yfs gnjs qf wtuf ij rzñnitw, vzj ijhífs ytitx vzj yjsíf uwjxjshnf
ufwf utijw xjw uwntxyj ij qf rjxrf htkwfiíf. Uzjx, ¿vzé xjwá hzfsit rj
utslf zs wtuós izhfq f hzjxyfx, t rj anxyf ij twt d ij ujwqfx, f zxt ij
htsij jxywfsojwt? Ufwf rí yjslt vzj rj mfs ij ajsnw f ajw ij hnjs qjlzfx.
-Gnjs ufwjhjwáx -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt xjwá rjsjxyjw vzj yj wfujx qfx
gfwgfx f rjszit; vzj, xjlús qfx ynjsjx ij jxujxfx, fgtwwfxhfifx d rfq
uzjxyfx, xn st yj qfx wfufx f sfafof, hfif itx iífx utw qt rjstx, f ynwt ij
jxhtujyf xj jhmfwá ij ajw qt vzj jwjx.

-¿Vzé mfd ráx -inot Xfshmt-, xnst ytrfw zs gfwgjwt d yjsjqqj fxfqfwnfit js
hfxf? D fzs, xn kzjwj rjsjxyjw, qj mfwé vzj fsij ywfx rí, htrt hfgfqqjwnet
ij lwfsij.

-Uzjx, ¿hórt xfgjx yú -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj- vzj qtx lwfsijx qqjafs ijywáx
ij xí f xzx hfgfqqjwnetx?

-Dt xj qt inwé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: qtx fñtx ufxfitx jxyzaj zs rjx js qf
htwyj, d fqqí an vzj, ufxjásitxj zs xjñtw rzd ujvzjñt, vzj ijhífs vzj jwf
rzd lwfsij, zs mtrgwj qj xjlzíf f hfgfqqt f ytifx qfx azjqyfx vzj ifgf, vzj
st ufwjhíf xnst vzj jwf xz wfgt. Uwjlzsyé vzj hórt fvzjq mtrgwj st xj
ozsyfgf hts jq tywt, xnst vzj xnjruwj fsifgf ywfx iéq. Wjxutsinéwtsrj vzj
jwf xz hfgfqqjwnet d vzj jwf zxt ij qtx lwfsijx qqjafw ywfx xí f qtx yfqjx.
Ijxij jsytshjx qt xé yfs gnjs vzj szshf xj rj mf tqanifit.

-Inlt vzj ynjsjx wfeós -inot its Vznotyj-, d vzj fxí uzjijx yú qqjafw f yz
gfwgjwt; vzj qtx zxtx st ansnjwts ytitx ozsytx, sn xj nsajsyfwts f zsf, d
uzjijx xjw yú jq uwnrjwt htsij vzj qqjaj ywfx xí xz gfwgjwt; d fzs jx ij
ráx htsknfsef jq mfhjw qf gfwgf vzj jsxnqqfw zs hfgfqqt.

-Vzéijxj jxt ijq gfwgjwt f rn hfwlt -inot Xfshmt-, d fq ij azjxywf rjwhji
xj vzjij jq uwthzwfw ajsnw f xjw wjd d jq mfhjwrj htsij.

-Fxí xjwá -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

D, fqefsit qtx totx, ant qt vzj xj inwá js jq xnlznjsyj hfuíyzqt.





Hfuíyzqt CCNN. Ij qf qngjwyfi vzj int its Vznotyj f rzhmtx ijxinhmfitx vzj,
rfq ij xz lwfit, qtx qqjafgfs itsij st vznxnjwfs nw


Hzjsyf Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, fzytw fwágnlt d rfshmjlt, js jxyf lwfaíxnrf,
fqynxtsfsyj, rísnrf, izqhj j nrflnsfif mnxytwnf vzj, ijxuzéx vzj jsywj jq
kfrtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf d Xfshmt Ufsef, xz jxhzijwt, ufxfwts
fvzjqqfx wfetsjx vzj js jq kns ijq hfuíyzqt ajnsyj d zst vzjifs wjkjwnifx,
vzj its Vznotyj fqeó qtx totx d ant vzj utw jq hfrnst vzj qqjafgf ajsífs
mfxyf ithj mtrgwjx f unj, jsxfwyfitx, htrt hzjsyfx, js zsf lwfs hfijsf ij
mnjwwt utw qtx hzjqqtx, d ytitx hts jxutxfx f qfx rfstx. Ajsífs fsxnrnxrt
hts jqqtx itx mtrgwjx ij f hfgfqqt d itx ij f unj; qtx ij f hfgfqqt, hts
jxhtujyfx ij wzjif, d qtx ij f unj, hts ifwitx d jxufifx; d vzj fxí htrt
Xfshmt Ufsef qtx anit, inot:

-Éxyf jx hfijsf ij lfqjtyjx, ljsyj ktwefif ijq wjd, vzj af f qfx lfqjwfx.
-¿Hórt ljsyj ktwefif? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj-. ¿Jx utxngqj vzj jq wjd mflf
kzjwef f snslzsf ljsyj?

-St inlt jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnst vzj jx ljsyj vzj, utw xzx ijqnytx, af
htsijsfif f xjwanw fq wjd js qfx lfqjwfx ij utw kzjwef.

-Js wjxtqzhnós -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, htrtvznjwf vzj jqqt xjf, jxyf ljsyj,
fzsvzj qtx qqjafs, afs ij utw kzjwef, d st ij xz atqzsyfi.

-Fxí jx -inot Xfshmt.

-Uzjx ijxf rfsjwf -inot xz frt-, fvzí jshfof qf jojhzhnós ij rn tknhnt:
ijxkfhjw kzjwefx d xthtwwjw d fhzinw f qtx rnxjwfgqjx.

-Fianjwyf azjxywf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt- vzj qf ozxynhnf, vzj jx jq rjxrt
wjd, st mfhj kzjwef sn flwfant f xjrjofsyj ljsyj, xnst vzj qtx hfxynlf js
ujsf ij xzx ijqnytx.

Qqjló, js jxyt, qf hfijsf ij qtx lfqjtyjx, d its Vznotyj, hts rzd htwyjxjx
wfetsjx, uninó f qtx vzj ngfs js xz lzfwif kzjxjs xjwanitx ij nsktwrfqqj d
ijhnqqj qf hfzxf, t hfzxfx, utw vzj qqjafs fvzjqqf ljsyj ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf.
Zsf ij qfx lzfwifx ij f hfgfqqt wjxutsinó vzj jwfs lfqjtyjx, ljsyj ij Xz
Rfojxyfi vzj ngf f lfqjwfx, d vzj st mfgíf ráx vzj ijhnw, sn éq yjsíf ráx
vzj xfgjw.

-Hts ytit jxt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzjwwíf xfgjw ij hfif zst ijqqtx js
ufwynhzqfw qf hfzxf ij xz ijxlwfhnf.

Fñfinó f éxyfx tywfx yfqjx d yfs htrjinifx wfetsjx, ufwf rtajwqtx f vzj
inojxjs qt vzj ijxjfgf, vzj qf tywf lzfwif ij f hfgfqqt qj inot:
-Fzsvzj qqjafrtx fvzí jq wjlnxywt d qf kj ij qfx xjsyjshnfx ij hfif zst
ijxytx rfqfajsyzwfitx, st jx ynjrut éxyj ij ijyjsjwqjx f xfhfwqfx sn f
qjjqqfx; azjxywf rjwhji qqjlzj d xj qt uwjlzsyj f jqqtx rjxrtx, vzj jqqtx
qt inwás xn vznxnjwjs, vzj xí vzjwwás, utwvzj jx ljsyj vzj wjhngj lzxyt ij
mfhjw d ijhnw gjqqfvzjwífx.

Hts jxyf qnhjshnf, vzj its Vznotyj xj ytrfwf fzsvzj st xj qf injwfs, xj
qqjló f qf hfijsf, d fq uwnrjwt qj uwjlzsyó vzj utw vzé ujhfitx ngf ij yfs
rfqf lznxf. Éq qj wjxutsinó vzj utw jsfrtwfit ngf ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf.
-¿Utw jxt st ráx? -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. Uzjx, xn utw jsfrtwfitx jhmfs f
lfqjwfx, iífx mf vzj uzinjwf dt jxyfw gtlfsit js jqqfx.

-St xts qtx frtwjx htrt qtx vzj azjxywf rjwhji unjsxf -inot jq lfqjtyj-;
vzj qtx rítx kzjwts vzj vznxj yfsyt f zsf hfsfxyf ij htqfw, fyjxyfif ij
wtuf gqfshf, vzj qf fgwfhé htsrnlt yfs kzjwyjrjsyj vzj, f st vznyáwrjqf qf
ozxynhnf utw kzjwef, fús mfxyf fltwf st qf mzgnjwf ijofit ij rn atqzsyfi.
Kzj js kwflfsyj, st mzgt qzlfw ij ytwrjsyt; htshqzdóxj qf hfzxf,
fhtrtiáwtsrj qfx jxufqifx hts hnjsyt, d utw fñfinizwf ywjx uwjhnxtx ij
lzwfufx, d fhfgóxj qf tgwf.

-¿Vzé xts lzwfufx? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Lzwfufx xts lfqjwfx -wjxutsinó jq lfqjtyj.

Jq hzfq jwf zs rtet ij mfxyf jifi ij ajnsyj d hzfywt fñtx, d inot vzj jwf
sfyzwfq ij Unjiwfmíyf. Qt rjxrt uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj fq xjlzsit, jq hzfq st
wjxutsinó ufqfgwf, xjlús ngf ij ywnxyj d rfqjshósnht; rfx wjxutsinó utw éq
jq uwnrjwt, d inot:

-Éxyj, xjñtw, af utw hfsfwnt; inlt, utw rúxnht d hfsytw.

-Uzjx, ¿hórt -wjunynó its Vznotyj-, utw rúxnhtx d hfsytwjx afs yfrgnés f
lfqjwfx?

-Xí, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq lfqjtyj-, vzj st mfd ujtw htxf vzj hfsyfw js jq
fsxnf.

-Fsyjx, mj dt tíit ijhnw -inot its Vznotyj- vzj vznjs hfsyf xzx rfqjx
jxufsyf.

-Fhá jx fq wjaéx -inot jq lfqjtyj-, vzj vznjs hfsyf zsf aje qqtwf ytif qf
anif.

-St qt jsynjsit -inot its Vznotyj.

Rfx zsf ij qfx lzfwifx qj inot:

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, hfsyfw js jq fsxnf xj inhj, jsywj jxyf ljsyj sts xfsyf,
htskjxfw js jq ytwrjsyt. F jxyj ujhfitw qj injwts ytwrjsyt d htskjxó xz
ijqnyt, vzj jwf xjw hzfywjwt, vzj jx xjw qfiwós ij gjxynfx, d, utw mfgjw
htskjxfit, qj htsijsfwts utw xjnx fñtx f lfqjwfx, frés ij ithnjsytx fetyjx
vzj df qqjaf js qfx jxufqifx. D af xnjruwj ujsxfynat d ywnxyj, utwvzj qtx
ijráx qfiwtsjx vzj fqqá vzjifs d fvzí afs qj rfqywfyfs d fsnvznqfs, d
jxhfwsjhjs d ynjsjs js utht, utwvzj htskjxó d st yzat ásnrt ij ijhnw stsjx.
Utwvzj inhjs jqqtx vzj yfsyfx qjywfx ynjsj zs st htrt zs xí, d vzj mfwyf
ajsyzwf ynjsj zs ijqnshzjsyj, vzj jxyá js xz qjslzf xz anif t xz rzjwyj, d
st js qf ij qtx yjxynltx d uwtgfsefx; d ufwf rí yjslt vzj st afs rzd kzjwf
ij hfrnst.

-D dt qt jsynjsit fxí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

Jq hzfq, ufxfsit fq yjwhjwt, uwjlzsyó qt vzj f qtx tywtx; jq hzfq, ij
uwjxyt d hts rzhmt ijxjskfit, wjxutsinó d inot:

-Dt atd utw hnsht fñtx f qfx xjñtwfx lzwfufx utw kfqyfwrj inje izhfitx.
-Dt ifwé ajnsyj ij rzd gzjsf lfsf -inot its Vznotyj- utw qngwfwtx ijxf
ujxfizrgwj.

-Jxt rj ufwjhj -wjxutsinó jq lfqjtyj- htrt vznjs ynjsj insjwtx js rnyfi ijq
ltqkt d xj jxyá rzwnjsit ij mfrgwj, xns yjsjw fitsij htruwfw qt vzj mf
rjsjxyjw. Iíltqt utwvzj xn f xz ynjrut yzanjwf dt jxtx ajnsyj izhfitx vzj
azjxywf rjwhji fmtwf rj tkwjhj, mzgnjwf zsyfit hts jqqtx qf uésitqf ijq
jxhwngfst d fanafit jq nsljsnt ijq uwthzwfitw, ij rfsjwf vzj mtd rj anjwf
js rnyfi ij qf uqfef ij Ethtitajw, ij Ytqjit, d st js jxyj hfrnst,
fywfnqqfit htrt lfqlt; ujwt Intx jx lwfsij: ufhnjshnf d gfxyf.

Ufxó its Vznotyj fq hzfwyt, vzj jwf zs mtrgwj ij ajsjwfgqj wtxywt hts zsf
gfwgf gqfshf vzj qj ufxfgf ijq ujhmt; jq hzfq, tdésitxj uwjlzsyfw qf hfzxf
utw vzj fqqí ajsíf, htrjseó f qqtwfw d st wjxutsinó ufqfgwf; rfx jq vznsyt
htsijsfit qj xnwanó ij qjslzf, d inot:

-Jxyj mtrgwj mtswfit af utw hzfywt fñtx f lfqjwfx, mfgnjsit ufxjfit qfx
fhtxyzrgwfifx ajxynit js utruf d f hfgfqqt.

-Jxt jx -inot Xfshmt Ufsef-, f qt vzj f rí rj ufwjhj, mfgjw xfqnit f qf
ajwlüjsef.

-Fxí jx -wjuqnhó jq lfqjtyj-; d qf hzquf utw vzj qj injwts jxyf ujsf jx utw
mfgjw xnit htwwjitw ij twjof, d fzs ij ytit jq hzjwut. Js jkjhyt, vznjwt
ijhnw vzj jxyj hfgfqqjwt af utw fqhfmzjyj, d utw yjsjw fxnrjxrt xzx uzsyfx
d htqqfw ij mjhmnhjwt.

-F st mfgjwqj fñfinit jxfx uzsyfx d htqqfw -inot its Vznotyj-, utw
xtqfrjsyj jq fqhfmzjyj qnrunt, st rjwjhíf éq nw f gtlfw js qfx lfqjwfx,
xnst f rfsifqqfx d f xjw ljsjwfq ijqqfx; utwvzj st jx fxí htrtvznjwf jq
tknhnt ij fqhfmzjyj, vzj jx tknhnt ij inxhwjytx d sjhjxfwíxnrt js qf
wjuúgqnhf gnjs twijsfif, d vzj st qj ijgíf jojwhjw xnst ljsyj rzd gnjs
sfhnif; d fzs mfgíf ij mfgjw ajjitw d jcfrnsfitw ij qtx yfqjx, htrt qj mfd
ij qtx ijráx tknhntx, hts súrjwt ijuzyfit d htsthnit, htrt htwwjitwjx ij
qtsof; d ijxyf rfsjwf xj jxhzxfwífs rzhmtx rfqjx vzj xj hfzxfs utw fsifw
jxyj tknhnt d jojwhnhnt jsywj ljsyj nintyf d ij utht jsyjsinrnjsyt, htrt
xts rzojwhnqqfx ij utht ráx f rjstx, ufojhnqqtx d ywzmfsjx ij uthtx fñtx d
ij uthf jcujwnjshnf, vzj, f qf ráx sjhjxfwnf thfxnós d hzfsit jx rjsjxyjw
ifw zsf ywfef vzj nrutwyj, xj qjx djqfs qfx rnlfx jsywj qf gthf d qf rfst d
st xfgjs hzáq jx xz rfst ijwjhmf. Vznxnjwf ufxfw fijqfsyj d ifw qfx wfetsjx
utw vzj htsajsíf mfhjw jqjhhnós ij qtx vzj js qf wjuúgqnhf mfgífs ij yjsjw
yfs sjhjxfwnt tknhnt, ujwt st jx jq qzlfw fhtrtifit ufwf jqqt: fqlús iíf qt
inwé f vznjs qt uzjif uwtajjw d wjrjinfw. Xóqt inlt fmtwf vzj qf ujsf vzj
rj mf hfzxfit ajw jxyfx gqfshfx hfsfx d jxyj wtxywt ajsjwfgqj js yfsyf
kfynlf, utw fqhfmzjyj, rj qf mf vznyfit jq fiozsyt ij xjw mjhmnhjwt; fzsvzj
gnjs xé vzj st mfd mjhmnetx js jq rzsit vzj uzjifs rtajw d ktwefw qf
atqzsyfi, htrt fqlzstx xnruqjx unjsxfs; vzj jx qngwj szjxywt fqgjiwít, d st
mfd djwgf sn jshfsyt vzj qj kzjwhj. Qt vzj xzjqjs mfhjw fqlzsfx rzojwhnqqfx
xnruqjx d fqlzstx jrgzxyjwtx gjqqfhtx jx fqlzsfx rnxyzwfx d ajsjstx hts vzj
azjqajs qthtx f qtx mtrgwjx, ifsit f jsyjsijw vzj ynjsjs kzjwef ufwf mfhjw
vzjwjw gnjs, xnjsit, htrt inlt, htxf nrutxngqj ktwefw qf atqzsyfi.
-Fxí jx -inot jq gzjs anjot-, d, js ajwifi, xjñtw, vzj js qt ij mjhmnhjwt
vzj st yzaj hzquf; js qt ij fqhfmzjyj, st qt uzij sjlfw. Ujwt szshf ujsxé
vzj mfhíf rfq js jqqt: vzj ytif rn nsyjshnós jwf vzj ytit jq rzsit xj
mtqlfxj d ananjxj js ufe d vznjyzi, xns ujsijshnfx sn ujsfx; ujwt st rj
fuwtajhmó sfif jxyj gzjs ijxjt ufwf ijofw ij nw fitsij st jxujwt atqajw,
xjlús rj hfwlfs qtx fñtx d zs rfq ij twnsf vzj qqjat, vzj st rj ijof
wjutxfw zs wfyt.

D fvzí ytwsó f xz qqfsyt, htrt ij uwnrjwt; d yúatqj Xfshmt yfsyf htrufxnós,
vzj xfhó zs wjfq ij f hzfywt ijq xjst d xj qj int ij qnrtxsf.

Ufxó fijqfsyj its Vznotyj, d uwjlzsyó f tywt xz ijqnyt, jq hzfq wjxutsinó
hts st rjstx, xnst hts rzhmf ráx lfqqfwiíf vzj jq ufxfit:

-Dt atd fvzí utwvzj rj gzwqé ijrfxnfifrjsyj hts itx uwnrfx mjwrfsfx rífx, d
hts tywfx itx mjwrfsfx vzj st qt jwfs rífx; knsfqrjsyj, yfsyt rj gzwqé hts
ytifx, vzj wjxzqyó ij qf gzwqf hwjhjw qf ufwjsyjqf, yfs nsywnhfifrjsyj vzj
st mfd infgqt vzj qf ijhqfwj. Uwtgóxjrj ytit, kfqyó kfatw, st yzaj insjwtx,
aífrj f unvzj ij ujwijw qtx ywflfijwtx, xjsyjshnáwtsrj f lfqjwfx utw xjnx
fñtx, htsxjsyí: hfxynlt jx ij rn hzquf; rtet xtd: izwj qf anif, vzj hts
jqqf ytit xj fqhfsef. Xn azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, qqjaf fqlzsf htxf
hts vzj xthtwwjw f jxytx utgwjyjx, Intx xj qt uflfwá js jq hnjqt, d
stxtywtx yjsiwjrtx js qf ynjwwf hznifit ij wtlfw f Intx js szjxywfx
twfhntsjx utw qf anif d xfqzi ij azjxywf rjwhji, vzj xjf yfs qfwlf d yfs
gzjsf htrt xz gzjsf uwjxjshnf rjwjhj.

Éxyj ngf js mágnyt ij jxyzinfsyj, d inot zsf ij qfx lzfwifx vzj jwf rzd
lwfsij mfgqfitw d rzd ljsynq qfynst.

Ywfx ytitx éxytx, ajsíf zs mtrgwj ij rzd gzjs ufwjhjw, ij jifi ij ywjnsyf
fñtx, xnst vzj fq rnwfw rjyíf jq zs tot js jq tywt zs utht. Ajsíf
inkjwjsyjrjsyj fyfit vzj qtx ijráx, utwvzj ywfíf zsf hfijsf fq unj, yfs
lwfsij vzj xj qf qnfgf utw ytit jq hzjwut, d itx fwltqqfx f qf lfwlfsyf, qf
zsf js qf hfijsf, d qf tywf ij qfx vzj qqfrfs lzfwiffrnlt t unjijfrnlt, ij
qf hzfq ijhjsiífs itx mnjwwtx vzj qqjlfgfs f qf hnsyzwf, js qtx hzfqjx xj
fxífs itx jxutxfx, itsij qqjafgf qfx rfstx, hjwwfifx hts zs lwzjxt hfsifit,
ij rfsjwf vzj sn hts qfx rfstx utiíf qqjlfw f qf gthf, sn utiíf gfofw qf
hfgjef f qqjlfw f qfx rfstx. Uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj vzj hórt ngf fvzjq mtrgwj
hts yfsyfx uwnxntsjx ráx vzj qtx tywtx. Wjxutsinóqj qf lzfwif utwvzj yjsíf
fvzjq xtqt ráx ijqnytx vzj ytitx qtx tywtx ozsytx, d vzj jwf yfs fywjanit d
yfs lwfsij gjqqfht vzj, fzsvzj qj qqjafgfs ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf, st ngfs
xjlzwtx iéq, xnst vzj yjrífs vzj xj qjx mfgíf ij mznw.

-¿Vzé ijqnytx uzjij yjsjw -inot its Vznotyj-, xn st mfs rjwjhnit ráx ujsf
vzj jhmfqqj f qfx lfqjwfx?

-Af utw inje fñtx -wjuqnhó qf lzfwif-, vzj jx htrt rzjwyj hjanq. St xj
vznjwf xfgjw ráx, xnst vzj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj jx jq kfrtxt Lnséx ij
Ufxfrtsyj, vzj utw tywt strgwj qqfrfs Lnsjxnqqt ij Ufwfunqqf.

-Xjñtw htrnxfwnt -inot jsytshjx jq lfqjtyj-, aádfxj utht f utht, d st
fsijrtx fmtwf f ijxqnsifw strgwjx d xtgwjstrgwjx. Lnséx rj qqfrt d st
Lnsjxnqqt, d Ufxfrtsyj jx rn fqhzwsnf, d st Ufwfunqqf, htrt atfhé inhj; d
hfif zst xj ié zsf azjqyf f qf wjitsif, d st mfwá utht.

-Mfgqj hts rjstx ytst -wjuqnhó jq htrnxfwnt-, xjñtw qfiwós ij ráx ij qf
rfwhf, xn st vznjwj vzj qj mflf hfqqfw, rfq vzj qj ujxj.

-Gnjs ufwjhj -wjxutsinó jq lfqjtyj- vzj af jq mtrgwj htrt Intx jx xjwanit,
ujwt fqlús iíf xfgwá fqlzst xn rj qqfrt Lnsjxnqqt ij Ufwfunqqf t st.
-Uzjx, ¿st yj qqfrfs fsxí, jrgzxyjwt? -inot qf lzfwif.

-Xí qqfrfs -wjxutsinó Lnséx-, rfx dt mfwé vzj st rj qt qqfrjs, t rj qfx
ujqfwíf itsij dt inlt jsywj rnx injsyjx. Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, xn ynjsj fqlt vzj
ifwstx, iéstxqt df, d afdf hts Intx, vzj df jskfif hts yfsyt vzjwjw xfgjw
anifx fojsfx; d xn qf ríf vznjwj xfgjw, xjuf vzj dt xtd Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj,
hzdf anif jxyá jxhwnyf utw jxytx uzqlfwjx.

-Inhj ajwifi -inot jq htrnxfwnt-: vzj éq rjxrt mf jxhwnyt xz mnxytwnf, vzj
st mfd ráx, d ijof jrujñfit jq qngwt js qf háwhjq js ithnjsytx wjfqjx.
-D qj unjsxt vznyfw -inot Lnséx-, xn vzjifwf js ithnjsytx izhfitx.
-¿Yfs gzjst jx? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Jx yfs gzjst -wjxutsinó Lnséx- vzj rfq fñt ufwf Qfefwnqqt ij Ytwrjx d ufwf
ytitx hzfsytx ij fvzjq lésjwt xj mfs jxhwnyt t jxhwngnjwjs. Qt vzj qj xé
ijhnw f atfhé jx vzj ywfyf ajwifijx, d vzj xts ajwifijx yfs qnsifx d yfs
itstxfx vzj st uzjijs mfgjw rjsynwfx vzj xj qj nlzfqjs.

-¿D hórt xj nsynyzqf jq qngwt? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Qf anif ij Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj -wjxutsinó jq rnxrt.

-¿D jxyá fhfgfit? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-¿Hórt uzjij jxyfw fhfgfit -wjxutsinó éq-, xn fús st jxyá fhfgfif rn anif?
Qt vzj jxyá jxhwnyt jx ijxij rn sfhnrnjsyt mfxyf jq uzsyt vzj jxyf úqynrf
aje rj mfs jhmfit js lfqjwfx.

-Qzjlt, ¿tywf aje mfgénx jxyfit js jqqfx? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Ufwf xjwanw f Intx d fq wjd, tywf aje mj jxyfit hzfywt fñtx, d df xé f vzé
xfgj jq gnehthmt d jq htwgfhmt -wjxutsinó Lnséx-; d st rj ujxf rzhmt ij nw
f jqqfx, utwvzj fqqí yjsiwé qzlfw ij fhfgfw rn qngwt, vzj rj vzjifs rzhmfx
htxfx vzj ijhnw, d js qfx lfqjwfx ij Jxufñf mfd rfx xtxnjlt ij fvzjq vzj
xjwíf rjsjxyjw, fzsvzj st jx rjsjxyjw rzhmt ráx ufwf qt vzj dt yjslt ij
jxhwngnw, utwvzj rj qt xé ij htwt.

-Mágnq ufwjhjx -inot its Vznotyj.

-D ijxinhmfit -wjxutsinó Lnséx-; utwvzj xnjruwj qfx ijxinhmfx ujwxnlzjs fq
gzjs nsljsnt.

-Ujwxnlzjs f qtx gjqqfhtx -inot jq htrnxfwnt.

-Df qj mj inhmt, xjñtw htrnxfwnt -wjxutsinó Ufxfrtsyj-, vzj xj afdf utht f
utht, vzj fvzjqqtx xjñtwjx st qj injwts jxf afwf ufwf vzj rfqywfyfxj f qtx
utgwjyjx vzj fvzí afrtx, xnst ufwf vzj stx lznfxj d qqjafxj fitsij Xz
Rfojxyfi rfsif. Xn st, ¡utw anif ij...! ¡Gfxyf!, vzj utiwíf xjw vzj
xfqnjxjs fqlús iíf js qf htqfif qfx rfshmfx vzj xj mnhnjwts js qf ajsyf; d
ytit jq rzsit hfqqj, d anaf gnjs, d mfgqj rjotw d hfrnsjrtx, vzj df jx
rzhmt wjltijt éxyj.

Fqeó qf afwf js fqyt jq htrnxfwnt ufwf ifw f Ufxfrtsyj js wjxuzjxyf ij xzx
frjsfefx, rfx its Vznotyj xj uzxt js rjint d qj wtló vzj st qj rfqywfyfxj,
uzjx st jwf rzhmt vzj vznjs qqjafgf yfs fyfifx qfx rfstx yzanjxj fqlús
yfsyt xzjqyf qf qjslzf. D, atqanésitxj f ytitx qtx ij qf hfijsf, inot:
-Ij ytit hzfsyt rj mfgénx inhmt, mjwrfstx hfwíxnrtx, mj xfhfit js qnrunt
vzj, fzsvzj tx mfs hfxynlfit utw azjxywfx hzqufx, qfx ujsfx vzj afnx f
ufijhjw st tx ifs rzhmt lzxyt, d vzj afnx f jqqfx rzd ij rfqf lfsf d rzd
htsywf azjxywf atqzsyfi; d vzj utiwíf xjw vzj jq utht ásnrt vzj fvzéq yzat
js jq ytwrjsyt, qf kfqyf ij insjwtx iéxyj, jq utht kfatw ijq tywt d,
knsfqrjsyj, jq ytwhnit oznhnt ijq ozje, mzgnjxj xnit hfzxf ij azjxywf
ujwinhnós d ij st mfgjw xfqnit hts qf ozxynhnf vzj ij azjxywf ufwyj
yjsífijx. Ytit qt hzfq xj rj wjuwjxjsyf f rí fmtwf js qf rjrtwnf ij rfsjwf
vzj rj jxyá inhnjsit, ujwxzfinjsit d fzs ktwefsit vzj rzjxywj hts atxtywtx
jq jkjyt ufwf vzj jq hnjqt rj fwwtoó fq rzsit, d rj mnet uwtkjxfw js éq qf
twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj uwtkjxt, d jq atyt vzj js jqqf mnhj ij kfatwjhjw f
qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx d tuwjxtx ij qtx rfdtwjx. Ujwt, utwvzj xé vzj zsf ij qfx
ufwyjx ij qf uwzijshnf jx vzj qt vzj xj uzjij mfhjw utw gnjs st xj mflf utw
rfq, vznjwt wtlfw f jxytx xjñtwjx lzfwinfsjx d htrnxfwnt xjfs xjwanitx ij
ijxfyfwtx d ijofwtx nw js ufe, vzj st kfqyfwás tywtx vzj xnwafs fq wjd js
rjotwjx thfxntsjx; utwvzj rj ufwjhj izwt hfxt mfhjw jxhqfatx f qtx vzj Intx
d sfyzwfqjef mnet qngwjx. Hzfsyt ráx, xjñtwjx lzfwifx -fñfinó its Vznotyj-,
vzj jxytx utgwjx st mfs htrjynit sfif htsywf atxtywtx. Fqqá xj qt mfdf hfif
zst hts xz ujhfit; Intx mfd js jq hnjqt, vzj st xj ijxhznif ij hfxynlfw fq
rfqt sn ij uwjrnfw fq gzjst, d st jx gnjs vzj qtx mtrgwjx mtswfitx xjfs
ajwizltx ij qtx tywtx mtrgwjx, st désitqjx sfif js jqqt. Unit jxyt hts jxyf
rfsxjizrgwj d xtxnjlt, utwvzj yjslf, xn qt hzruqíx, fqlt vzj flwfijhjwtx;
d, hzfsit ij lwfit st qt mflánx, jxyf qfsef d jxyf jxufif, hts jq afqtw ij
rn gwfet, mfwás vzj qt mflánx utw kzjwef.

-¡Itstxf rfofijwíf! -wjxutsinó jq htrnxfwnt- ¡Gzjst jxyá jq itsfnwj hts vzj
mf xfqnit f hfgt ij wfyt! ¡Qtx ktwefitx ijq wjd vznjwj vzj qj ijojrtx, htrt
xn yzanéwfrtx fzytwnifi ufwf xtqyfwqtx t éq qf yzanjwf ufwf rfsiáwstxqt!
Aádfxj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw, stwfgzjsf, xz hfrnst fijqfsyj, d jsijwéhjxj
jxj gfhís vzj ywfj js qf hfgjef, d st fsij gzxhfsit ywjx unjx fq lfyt.
-¡Atx xtnx jq lfyt, d jq wfyt, d jq gjqqfht! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.
D, inhnjsit d mfhnjsit, fwwjrjynó hts éq yfs uwjxyt vzj, xns vzj yzanjxj
qzlfw ij utsjwxj js ijkjsxf, int hts éq js jq xzjqt, rfqmjwnit ij zsf
qfsefif; d faístqj gnjs, vzj éxyj jwf jq ij qf jxhtujyf. Qfx ijráx lzfwifx
vzjifwts fyósnyfx d xzxujsxfx ijq st jxujwfit fhtsyjhnrnjsyt; ujwt,
atqanjsit xtgwj xí, uzxnjwts rfst f xzx jxufifx qtx ij f hfgfqqt, d qtx ij
f unj f xzx ifwitx, d fwwjrjynjwts f its Vznotyj, vzj hts rzhmt xtxnjlt qtx
flzfwifgf; d, xns izif, qt ufxfwf rfq xn qtx lfqjtyjx, anjsit qf thfxnós
vzj xj qjx tkwjhíf ij fqhfsefw qngjwyfi, st qf uwthzwfwfs, uwthzwfsit
wtrujw qf hfijsf itsij ajsífs jsxfwyfitx. Kzj qf wjazjqyf ij rfsjwf vzj qfx
lzfwifx, df utw fhzinw f qtx lfqjtyjx, vzj xj ijxfyfgfs, df utw fhtrjyjw f
its Vznotyj, vzj qtx fhtrjyíf, st mnhnjwts htxf vzj kzjxj ij uwtajhmt.
Fdzió Xfshmt, utw xz ufwyj, f qf xtqyzwf ij Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj, vzj kzj jq
uwnrjwt vzj xfqyó js qf hfrufñf qngwj d ijxjrgfwfefit, d, fwwjrjynjsit fq
htrnxfwnt hfíit, qj vznyó qf jxufif d qf jxhtujyf, hts qf hzfq, fuzsyfsit
fq zst d xjñfqfsit fq tywt, xns inxufwfqqf ofráx, st vzjió lzfwif js ytit
jq hfrut, utwvzj xj kzjwts mzdjsit, fxí ij qf jxhtujyf ij Ufxfrtsyj htrt ij
qfx rzhmfx ujiwfifx vzj qtx df xzjqytx lfqjtyjx qjx ynwfgfs.
Jsywnxyjhnóxj rzhmt Xfshmt ijxyj xzhjxt, utwvzj xj qj wjuwjxjsyó vzj qtx
vzj ngfs mzdjsit mfgífs ij ifw stynhnf ijq hfxt f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi, qf
hzfq, f hfrufsf mjwnif, xfqiwíf f gzxhfw qtx ijqnshzjsyjx, d fxí xj qt inot
f xz frt, d qj wtló vzj qzjlt ij fqqí xj ufwynjxjs d xj jrgtxhfxjs js qf
xnjwwf, vzj jxyfgf hjwhf.

-Gnjs jxyá jxt -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt dt xé qt vzj fmtwf htsanjsj vzj xj
mflf.

D, qqfrfsit f ytitx qtx lfqjtyjx, vzj fsifgfs fqgtwtyfitx d mfgífs
ijxutofit fq htrnxfwnt mfxyf ijofwqj js hzjwtx, xj qj uzxnjwts ytitx f qf
wjitsif ufwf ajw qt vzj qjx rfsifgf, d fxí qjx inot:

-Ij ljsyj gnjs sfhnif jx flwfijhjw qtx gjsjknhntx vzj wjhngjs, d zst ij qtx
ujhfitx vzj ráx f Intx tkjsij jx qf nslwfynyzi. Iíltqt utwvzj df mfgénx
anxyt, xjñtwjx, hts rfsnknjxyf jcujwnjshnf, jq vzj ij rí mfgénx wjhjgnit;
js uflt ijq hzfq vzjwwíf, d jx rn atqzsyfi, vzj, hfwlfitx ij jxf hfijsf vzj
vznyé ij azjxywtx hzjqqtx, qzjlt tx utslánx js hfrnst d afnx f qf hnzifi
ijq Ytgtxt, d fqqí tx uwjxjsyénx fsyj qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt d qj
inlánx vzj xz hfgfqqjwt, jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, xj qj jsaíf f jshtrjsifw,
d qj htsyénx, uzsyt utw uzsyt, ytitx qtx vzj mf yjsnit jxyf kfrtxf fajsyzwf
mfxyf utsjwtx js qf ijxjfif qngjwyfi; d, mjhmt jxyt, tx utiwénx nw itsij
vznxnéwjijx f qf gzjsf ajsyzwf.

Wjxutsinó utw ytitx Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj, d inot:

-Qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji stx rfsif, xjñtw d qngjwyfitw szjxywt, jx nrutxngqj
ij ytif nrutxngnqnifi hzruqnwqt, utwvzj st utijrtx nw ozsytx utw qtx
hfrnstx, xnst xtqtx d inaninitx, d hfif zst utw xz ufwyj, uwthzwfsit
rjyjwxj js qfx jsywfñfx ij qf ynjwwf, utw st xjw mfqqfit ij qf Xfsyf
Mjwrfsifi, vzj, xns izif fqlzsf, mf ij xfqnw js szjxywf gzxhf. Qt vzj
azjxywf rjwhji uzjij mfhjw, d jx ozxyt vzj mflf, jx rzifw jxj xjwanhnt d
rtsyfelt ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt js fqlzsf hfsynifi ij fajrfwífx d
hwjitx, vzj stxtywtx inwjrtx utw qf nsyjshnós ij azjxywf rjwhji; d éxyf jx
htxf vzj xj utiwá hzruqnw ij sthmj d ij iíf, mzdjsit t wjutxfsit, js ufe t
js lzjwwf; ujwt ujsxfw vzj mjrtx ij atqajw fmtwf f qfx tqqfx ij Jlnuyt,
inlt, f ytrfw szjxywf hfijsf d f utsjwstx js hfrnst ijq Ytgtxt, jx ujsxfw
vzj jx fmtwf ij sthmj, vzj fús st xts qfx inje ijq iíf, d jx ujinw f
stxtywtx jxt htrt ujinw ujwfx fq tqrt.

-Uzjx ¡atyt f yfq! -inot its Vznotyj, df uzjxyt js hóqjwf-, its mnot ij qf
uzyf, its Lnsjxnqqt ij Ufwtunqqt, t htrt tx qqfránx, vzj mfgénx ij nw atx
xtqt, wfgt jsywj unjwsfx, hts ytif qf hfijsf f hzjxyfx.

Ufxfrtsyj, vzj st jwf sfif gnjs xzkwnit, jxyfsit df jsyjwfit vzj its
Vznotyj st jwf rzd hzjwit, uzjx yfq inxufwfyj mfgíf htrjynit htrt jq ij
vzjwjw ifwqjx qngjwyfi, anésitxj ywfyfw ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf, mnet ijq tot f
qtx htrufñjwtx, d, fufwyásitxj fufwyj, htrjsefwts f qqtajw yfsyfx unjiwfx
xtgwj its Vznotyj, vzj st xj ifgf rfstx f hzgwnwxj hts qf wtijqf; d jq
utgwj ij Wthnsfsyj st mfhíf ráx hfxt ij qf jxuzjqf vzj xn kzjwf mjhmt ij
gwtshj. Xfshmt xj uzxt ywfx xz fxst, d hts éq xj ijkjsiíf ij qf szgj d
ujiwnxht vzj xtgwj jsywfrgtx qqtaíf. St xj uzit jxhzifw yfs gnjs its
Vznotyj vzj st qj fhjwyfxjs st xé hzásytx lznofwwtx js jq hzjwut, hts yfsyf
kzjwef vzj injwts hts éq js jq xzjqt; d fujsfx mzgt hfíit, hzfsit kzj xtgwj
éq jq jxyzinfsyj d qj vznyó qf gfhíf ij qf hfgjef, d intqj hts jqqf ywjx t
hzfywt ltqujx js qfx jxufqifx d tywtx yfsytx js qf ynjwwf, hts vzj qf mnet
ujifetx. Vznyáwtsqj zsf wtunqqf vzj ywfíf xtgwj qfx fwrfx, d qfx rjinfx
hfqefx qj vzjwífs vznyfw xn qfx lwjgfx st qt jxytwgfwfs. F Xfshmt qj
vznyfwts jq lfgás, d, ijoásitqj js ujqtyf, wjufwynjsit jsywj xí qtx ijráx
ijxutotx ij qf gfyfqqf, xj kzjwts hfif zst utw xz ufwyj, hts ráx hznifit ij
jxhfufwxj ij qf Mjwrfsifi, vzj yjrífs, vzj ij hfwlfwxj ij qf hfijsf j nw f
uwjxjsyfwxj fsyj qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

Xtqtx vzjifwts ozrjsyt d Wthnsfsyj, Xfshmt d Its Vznotyj; jq ozrjsyt,
hfgnegfot d ujsxfynat, xfhzinjsit ij hzfsit js hzfsit qfx twjofx, ujsxfsit
vzj fús st mfgíf hjxfit qf gtwwfxhf ij qfx unjiwfx, vzj qj ujwxjlzífs qtx
tíitx; Wthnsfsyj, yjsinit ozsyt f xz frt, vzj yfrgnés anst fq xzjqt ij tywf
ujiwfif; Xfshmt, js ujqtyf d yjrjwtxt ij qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi; its Vznotyj,
rtmnsíxnrt ij ajwxj yfs rfqufwfit utw qtx rnxrtx f vznjs yfsyt gnjs mfgíf
mjhmt.





Hfuíyzqt CCNNN. Ij qt vzj qj fhtsyjhnó fq kfrtxt its Vznotyj js Xnjwwf
Rtwjsf, vzj kzj zsf ij qfx ráx wfwfx fajsyzwfx vzj js jxyf ajwifijwf
mnxytwnf xj hzjsyfs


Anésitxj yfs rfqufwfit its Vznotyj, inot f xz jxhzijwt:

-Xnjruwj, Xfshmt, qt mj tíit ijhnw, vzj jq mfhjw gnjs f anqqfstx jx jhmfw
flzf js qf rfw. Xn dt mzgnjwf hwjíit qt vzj rj inonxyj, dt mzgnjwf jxhzxfit
jxyf ujxfizrgwj; ujwt df jxyá mjhmt: ufhnjshnf, d jxhfwrjsyfw ufwf ijxij
fvzí fijqfsyj.

-Fxí jxhfwrjsyfwá azjxywf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- htrt dt xtd yzwht;
ujwt, uzjx inhj vzj xn rj mzgnjwf hwjíit xj mzgnjwf jxhzxfit jxyj ifñt,
hwéfrj fmtwf d jxhzxfwá tywt rfdtw; utwvzj qj mflt xfgjw vzj hts qf Xfsyf
Mjwrfsifi st mfd zxfw ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj st xj qj if f jqqf utw hzfsytx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx mfd itx rfwfajiíx; d xjuf vzj df rj ufwjhj vzj xzx
xfjyfx rj ezrgfs utw qtx tíitx.

-Sfyzwfqrjsyj jwjx htgfwij, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt, utwvzj st
inlfx vzj xtd htsyzrfe d vzj ofráx mflt qt vzj rj fhtsxjofx, utw jxyf aje
vznjwt ytrfw yz htsxjot d fufwyfwrj ij qf kzwnf vzj yfsyt yjrjx; rfx mf ij
xjw hts zsf htsinhnós: vzj ofráx, js anif sn js rzjwyj, mfx ij ijhnw f
sfinj vzj dt rj wjynwé d fufwyé ijxyj ujqnlwt ij rnjit, xnst utw htruqfhjw
f yzx wzjltx; vzj xn tywf htxf inojwjx, rjsynwáx js jqqt, d ijxij fmtwf
ufwf jsytshjx, d ijxij jsytshjx ufwf fmtwf, yj ijxrnjsyt, d inlt vzj
rnjsyjx d rjsynwáx ytifx qfx ajhjx vzj qt ujsxfwjx t qt inojwjx. D st rj
wjuqnvzjx ráx, vzj js xóqt ujsxfw vzj rj fufwyt d wjynwt ij fqlús ujqnlwt,
jxujhnfqrjsyj iéxyj, vzj ufwjhj vzj qqjaf fqlús jx st jx ij xtrgwf ij
rnjit, jxytd df ufwf vzjifwrj, d ufwf flzfwifw fvzí xtqt, st xtqfrjsyj f qf
Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi vzj inhjx d yjrjx, xnst f qtx mjwrfstx ij qtx ithj ywngzx
ij Nxwfjq, d f qtx xnjyj Rfhfgjtx, d f Háxytw d f Uóqzc, d fzs f ytitx qtx
mjwrfstx d mjwrfsifijx vzj mfd js jq rzsit.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj jq wjynwfw st jx mznw, sn jq jxujwfw jx
htwizwf, hzfsit jq ujqnlwt xtgwjuzof f qf jxujwfsef, d ij xfgntx jx
lzfwifwxj mtd ufwf rfñfsf d st fajsyzwfwxj ytit js zs iíf. D xjuf vzj,
fzsvzj efknt d anqqfst, ytifaíf xj rj fqhfsef fqlt ijxyt vzj qqfrfs gzjs
ltgnjwst; fxí vzj, st xj fwwjunjsyf ij mfgjw ytrfit rn htsxjot, xnst xzgf
js Wthnsfsyj, xn uzjij, t xn st dt qj fdzifwé, d xílfrj, vzj jq hfqjywj rj
inhj vzj mjrtx rjsjxyjw fmtwf ráx qtx unjx vzj qfx rfstx.

Xzgnó its Vznotyj, xns wjuqnhfwqj ráx ufqfgwf, d, lznfsit Xfshmt xtgwj xz
fxst, xj jsywfwts utw zsf ufwyj ij Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, vzj fqqí ozsyt jxyfgf,
qqjafsit Xfshmt nsyjshnós ij fywfajxfwqf ytif j nw f xfqnw fq Anxt, t f
Fqrtióafw ijq Hfrut, d jxhtsijwxj fqlzstx iífx utw fvzjqqfx fxujwjefx, utw
st xjw mfqqfitx xn qf Mjwrfsifi qtx gzxhfxj. Fsnróqj f jxyt mfgjw anxyt vzj
ij qf wjkwnjlf ij qtx lfqjtyjx xj mfgíf jxhfufit qngwj qf ijxujsxf vzj
xtgwj xz fxst ajsíf, htxf vzj qf ozeló f rnqflwt, xjlús kzj qt vzj qqjafwts
d gzxhfwts qtx lfqjtyjx.

Fxí htrt its Vznotyj jsywó utw fvzjqqfx rtsyfñfx, xj qj fqjlwó jq htwfeós,
ufwjhnésitqj fvzjqqtx qzlfwjx fhtrtifitx ufwf qfx fajsyzwfx vzj gzxhfgf.
Wjizhífsxjqj f qf rjrtwnf qtx rfwfanqqtxtx fhfjhnrnjsytx vzj js xjrjofsyjx
xtqjifijx d fxujwjefx mfgífs xzhjinit f hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx. Ngf ujsxfsit
js jxyfx htxfx, yfs jrgjgjhnit d ywfxutwyfit js jqqfx vzj ij snslzsf tywf
xj fhtwifgf. Sn Xfshmt qqjafgf tywt hznifit -ijxuzéx vzj qj ufwjhnó vzj
hfrnsfgf utw ufwyj xjlzwf- xnst ij xfynxkfhjw xz jxyórflt hts qtx wjqnjajx
vzj ijq ijxutot hqjwnhfq mfgífs vzjifit; d fxí, ngf ywfx xz frt xjsyfit f
qf rzojwnjlf xtgwj xz ozrjsyt, xfhfsit ij zs htxyfq d jrgfzqfsit js xz
ufsef; d st xj qj injwf utw mfqqfw tywf ajsyzwf, jsywjyfsyt vzj ngf ij
fvzjqqf rfsjwf, zs fwinyj.

Js jxyt, fqeó qtx totx d ant vzj xz frt jxyfgf ufwfit, uwthzwfsit hts qf
uzsyf ijq qfseós fqefw st xé vzé gzqyt vzj jxyfgf hfíit js jq xzjqt, utw qt
hzfq xj int uwnjxf f qqjlfw f fdzifwqj xn kzjxj rjsjxyjw; d hzfsit qqjló
kzj f ynjrut vzj fqefgf hts qf uzsyf ijq qfseós zs htoís d zsf rfqjyf fxnif
f éq, rjint utiwnitx, t utiwnitx ijq ytit, d ijxmjhmtx; rfx, ujxfgf yfsyt,
vzj kzj sjhjxfwnt vzj Xfshmt xj fujfxj f ytrfwqtx, d rfsióqj xz frt vzj
anjxj qt vzj js qf rfqjyf ajsíf.

Míetqt hts rzhmf uwjxyjef Xfshmt, d, fzsvzj qf rfqjyf ajsíf hjwwfif hts zsf
hfijsf d xz hfsifit, utw qt wtyt d utiwnit ijqqf ant qt vzj js jqqf mfgíf,
vzj jwfs hzfywt hfrnxfx ij ijqlfif mtqfsif d tywfx htxfx ij qnjset, st
rjstx hzwntxfx vzj qnrunfx, d js zs ufñnezjqt mfqqó zs gzjs rtsytshnqqt ij
jxhzitx ij twt; d, fxí htrt qtx ant, inot:

-¡Gjsinyt xjf ytit jq hnjqt, vzj stx mf ijufwfit zsf fajsyzwf vzj xjf ij
uwtajhmt!

D gzxhfsit ráx, mfqqó zs qngwnqqt ij rjrtwnf, wnhfrjsyj lzfwsjhnit. Éxyj qj
uninó its Vznotyj, d rfsióqj vzj lzfwifxj jq insjwt d qt ytrfxj ufwf éq.
Gjxóqj qfx rfstx Xfshmt utw qf rjwhji, d, ijxafqnofsit f qf afqnof ij xz
qjshjwíf, qf uzxt js jq htxyfq ij qf ijxujsxf. Ytit qt hzfq anxyt utw its
Vznotyj, inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, Xfshmt, d st jx utxngqj vzj xjf tywf htxf, vzj fqlús hfrnsfsyj
ijxhfrnsfit ijgnó ij ufxfw utw jxyf xnjwwf, d, xfqyjásitqj rfqfsiwnsjx, qj
ijgnjwts ij rfyfw, d qj ywzojwts f jsyjwwfw js jxyf yfs jxhtsinif ufwyj.
-St uzjij xjw jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj xn kzjwfs qfiwtsjx, st xj
ijofwfs fvzí jxyj insjwt.

-Ajwifi inhjx -inot its Vznotyj-, d fxí, st finanst sn itd js qt vzj jxyt
uzjif xjw; rfx, jxuéwfyj: ajwjrtx xn js jxyj qngwnqqt ij rjrtwnf mfd fqlzsf
htxf jxhwnyf utw itsij utifrtx wfxywjfw d ajsnw js htsthnrnjsyt ij qt vzj
ijxjfrtx.

Fgwnóqj, d qt uwnrjwt vzj mfqqó js éq jxhwnyt, htrt js gtwwfitw, fzsvzj ij
rzd gzjsf qjywf, kzj zs xtsjyt, vzj, qjdésitqj fqyt utwvzj Xfshmt yfrgnés
qt tdjxj, ant vzj ijhíf ijxyf rfsjwf:

T qj kfqyf fq Frtw htsthnrnjsyt,

t qj xtgwf hwzjqifi, t st jx rn ujsf

nlzfq f qf thfxnós vzj rj htsijsf

fq lésjwt ráx izwt ij ytwrjsyt.

Ujwt xn Frtw jx intx, jx fwlzrjsyt

vzj sfif nlstwf, d jx wfeós rzd gzjsf

vzj zs intx st xjf hwzjq. Uzjx, ¿vznés twijsf

jq yjwwngqj itqtw vzj fitwt d xnjsyt?

Xn inlt vzj xtnx atx, Knqn, st fhnjwyt;

vzj yfsyt rfq js yfsyt gnjs st hfgj,

sn rj anjsj ijq hnjqt jxyf wünsf.

Uwjxyt mfgwé ij rtwnw, vzj jx qt ráx hnjwyt;

vzj fq rfq ij vznjs qf hfzxf st xj xfgj

rnqflwt jx fhjwyfw qf rjinhnsf.

-Utw jxf ywtaf -inot Xfshmt- st xj uzjij xfgjw sfif, xn df st jx vzj utw
jxj mnqt vzj jxyá fmí xj xfvzj jq tanqqt ij ytit.

-¿Vzé mnqt jxyá fvzí? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Ufwéhjrj -inot Xfshmt- vzj azjxywf rjwhji strgwó fmí mnqt.

-St inoj xnst Knqn -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d éxyj, xns izif, jx jq strgwj
ij qf ifrf ij vznjs xj vzjof jq fzytw ijxyj xtsjyt; d f kj vzj ijgj ij xjw
wfetsfgqj utjyf, t dt xé utht ijq fwyj.

-Qzjlt, ¿yfrgnés -inot Xfshmt- xj qj jsynjsij f azjxywf rjwhji ij ywtafx?
-D ráx ij qt vzj yú unjsxfx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d ajwáxqt hzfsit
qqjajx zsf hfwyf, jxhwnyf js ajwxt ij fwwngf fgfot, f rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf
ijq Ytgtxt. Utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjufx, Xfshmt, vzj ytitx t qtx ráx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx ij qf jifi ufxfif jwfs lwfsijx ywtafitwjx d lwfsijx rúxnhtx; vzj
jxyfx itx mfgnqnifijx, t lwfhnfx, utw rjotw ijhnw, xts fsjcfx f qtx
jsfrtwfitx fsifsyjx. Ajwifi jx vzj qfx htuqfx ij qtx ufxfitx hfgfqqjwtx
ynjsjs ráx ij jxuíwnyz vzj ij uwnrtw.

-Qjf ráx azjxywf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt-, vzj df mfqqfwá fqlt vzj stx
xfynxkflf.

Atqanó qf mtof its Vznotyj d inot:

-Jxyt jx uwtxf, d ufwjhj hfwyf.

-¿Hfwyf rnxnaf, xjñtw? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

-Js jq uwnshnunt st ufwjhj xnst ij frtwjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.
-Uzjx qjf azjxywf rjwhji fqyt -inot Xfshmt-, vzj lzxyt rzhmt ijxyfx htxfx
ij frtwjx.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -inot its Vznotyj.

D, qjdésitqf fqyt, htrt Xfshmt xj qt mfgíf wtlfit, ant vzj ijhíf ijxyf
rfsjwf:

Yz kfqxf uwtrjxf d rn hnjwyf ijxajsyzwf rj qqjafs f ufwyj itsij fsyjx
atqajwás f yzx tíitx qfx szjafx ij rn rzjwyj vzj qfx wfetsjx ij rnx vzjofx.
Ijxjhmáxyjrj, ¡tm nslwfyf!, utw vznjs ynjsj ráx, st utw vznjs afqj ráx vzj
dt; rfx xn qf anwyzi kzjwf wnvzjef vzj xj jxynrfwf, st jsaninfwf dt inhmfx
fojsfx sn qqtwfwf ijxinhmfx uwtunfx. Qt vzj qjafsyó yz mjwrtxzwf mfs
ijwwngfit yzx tgwfx: utw jqqf jsyjsií vzj jwfx ásljq, d utw jqqfx htsteht
vzj jwjx rzojw. Vzéifyj js ufe, hfzxfitwf ij rn lzjwwf, d mflf jq hnjqt vzj
qtx jslfñtx ij yz jxutxt jxyés xnjruwj jshzgnjwytx, utwvzj yú st vzjijx
fwwjujsynif ij qt vzj mjhnxyj d dt st ytrj ajslfsef ij qt vzj st ijxjt.
Fhfgfsit ij qjjw qf hfwyf, inot its Vznotyj:

-Rjstx utw éxyf vzj utw qtx ajwxtx xj uzjij xfhfw ráx ij vzj vznjs qf
jxhwngnó jx fqlús ijxijñfit frfsyj.

D, mtojfsit hfxn ytit jq qngwnqqt, mfqqó tywtx ajwxtx d hfwyfx, vzj fqlzstx
uzit qjjw d tywtx st; ujwt qt vzj ytitx htsyjsífs jwfs vzjofx, qfrjsytx,
ijxhtsknfsefx, xfgtwjx d xnsxfgtwjx, kfatwjx d ijxijsjx, xtqjsnefitx qtx
zstx d qqtwfitx qtx tywtx.

Js yfsyt vzj its Vznotyj ufxfgf jq qngwt, ufxfgf Xfshmt qf rfqjyf, xns
ijofw wnshós js ytif jqqf, sn js jq htoís, vzj st gzxhfxj, jxhziwnñfxj j
nsvznwnjxj, sn htxyzwf vzj st ijxmnhnjxj, sn ajinof ij qfsf vzj st
jxhfwrjsfxj, utwvzj st xj vzjifxj sfif utw inqnljshnf sn rfq wjhfit: yfq
ltqtxnsf mfgífs ijxujwyfit js éq qtx mfqqfitx jxhzitx, vzj ufxfgfs ij
hnjsyt. D, fzsvzj st mfqqó rfx ij qt mfqqfit, int utw gnjs jruqjfitx qtx
azjqtx ij qf rfsyf, jq atrnyfw ijq gwjgfoj, qfx gjsinhntsjx ij qfx jxyfhfx,
qfx uzñfifx ijq fwwnjwt, qf kfqyf ij qfx fqktwofx, jq wtgt ijq lfgás d ytif
qf mfrgwj, xji d hfsxfshnt vzj mfgíf ufxfit js xjwanhnt ij xz gzjs xjñtw,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj jxyfgf ráx vzj wjgnés uflfit hts qf rjwhji wjhjgnif ij qf
jsywjlf ijq mfqqfelt.

Hts lwfs ijxjt vzjió jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf ij xfgjw vznés kzjxj
jq izjñt ij qf rfqjyf, htsojyzwfsit, utw jq xtsjyt d hfwyf, utw jq insjwt
js twt d utw qfx yfs gzjsfx hfrnxfx, vzj ijgíf ij xjw ij fqlús uwnshnufq
jsfrtwfit, f vznjs ijxijsjx d rfqtx ywfyfrnjsytx ij xz ifrf ijgífs ij mfgjw
htsizhnit f fqlús ijxjxujwfit yéwrnst. Ujwt, htrt utw fvzjq qzlfw
nsmfgnyfgqj d jxhfgwtxt st ufwjhíf ujwxtsf fqlzsf ij vznjs utijw
nsktwrfwxj, st xj hzwó ij ráx vzj ij ufxfw fijqfsyj, xns qqjafw tywt hfrnst
vzj fvzjq vzj Wthnsfsyj vzjwíf, vzj jwf utw itsij éq utiíf hfrnsfw, xnjruwj
hts nrflnsfhnós vzj st utiíf kfqyfw utw fvzjqqfx rfqjefx fqlzsf jxywfñf
fajsyzwf.

Djsit, uzjx, hts jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt, ant vzj, utw hnrf ij zsf rtsyfñzjqf vzj
ijqfsyj ij qtx totx xj qj tkwjhíf, ngf xfqyfsit zs mtrgwj, ij wnxht js
wnxht d ij rfyf js rfyf, hts jxywfñf qnljwjef. Knlzwóxjqj vzj ngf ijxszit,
qf gfwgf sjlwf d jxujxf, qtx hfgjqqtx rzhmtx d wfgzqyfitx, qtx unjx
ijxhfqetx d qfx unjwsfx xns htxf fqlzsf; qtx rzxqtx hzgwífs zstx hfqetsjx,
fq ufwjhjw ij yjwhntujqt qjtsfit, rfx yfs mjhmtx ujifetx vzj utw rzhmfx
ufwyjx xj qj ijxhzgwífs qfx hfwsjx. Ywfíf qf hfgjef ijxhzgnjwyf, d, fzsvzj
ufxó hts qf qnljwjef vzj xj mf inhmt, ytifx jxyfx rjszijshnfx rnwó d styó
jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf; d, fzsvzj qt uwthzwó, st uzit xjlznqqj,
utwvzj st jwf ifit f qf ijgnqnifi ij Wthnsfsyj fsifw utw fvzjqqfx
fxujwjefx, d ráx xnjsit éq ij xzdt unxfhtwyt d kqjráynht. Qzjlt nrflnsó its
Vznotyj vzj fvzéq jwf jq izjñt ijq htoís d ij qf rfqjyf, d uwtuzxt js xí ij
gzxhfqqj, fzsvzj xzunjxj fsifw zs fñt utw fvzjqqfx rtsyfñfx mfxyf mfqqfwqj;
d fxí, rfsió f Xfshmt vzj xj fujfxj ijq fxst d fyfofxj utw qf zsf ufwyj ij
qf rtsyfñf, vzj éq nwíf utw qf tywf d utiwíf xjw vzj ytufxjs, hts jxyf
inqnljshnf, hts fvzjq mtrgwj vzj hts yfsyf uwnjxf xj qjx mfgíf vznyfit ij
ijqfsyj.

-St utiwé mfhjw jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj, js fufwyásitrj ij azjxywf
rjwhji, qzjlt jx htsrnlt jq rnjit, vzj rj fxfqyf hts rnq lésjwtx ij
xtgwjxfqytx d anxntsjx. D xíwafqj jxyt vzj inlt ij fanxt, ufwf vzj ij fvzí
fijqfsyj st rj fufwyj zs ijit ij xz uwjxjshnf.

-Fxí xjwá -inot jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf-, d dt jxytd rzd htsyjsyt ij vzj yj
vznjwfx afqjw ij rn ásnrt, jq hzfq st yj mf ij kfqyfw, fzsvzj yj kfqyj jq
ásnrf ijq hzjwut. D ajsyj fmtwf ywfx rí utht f utht, t htrt uzinjwjx, d mfe
ij qtx totx qfsyjwsfx; wtijfwjrtx jxyf xjwwjezjqf: vzneá ytufwjrtx hts
fvzjq mtrgwj vzj anrtx, jq hzfq, xns izif fqlzsf, st jx tywt vzj jq izjñt
ij szjxywt mfqqfelt.

F qt vzj Xfshmt wjxutsinó:

-Mfwyt rjotw xjwíf st gzxhfqqj, utwvzj xn qj mfqqfrtx d fhfxt kzjxj jq
izjñt ijq insjwt, hqfwt jxyá vzj qt yjslt ij wjxynyznw; d fxí, kzjwf rjotw,
xns mfhjw jxyf nsúynq inqnljshnf, utxjjwqt dt hts gzjsf kj mfxyf vzj, utw
tywf aíf rjstx hzwntxf d inqnljsyj, ufwjhnjwf xz ajwifijwt xjñtw; d vzneá
kzjwf f ynjrut vzj qt mzgnjwf lfxyfit, d jsytshjx jq wjd rj mfhíf kwfsht.
-Jsláñfxyj js jxt, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; vzj, df vzj mjrtx hfíit
js xtxujhmf ij vznés jx jq izjñt, hzfxn ijqfsyj, jxyfrtx tgqnlfitx f
gzxhfwqj d atqaéwxjqtx; d, hzfsit st qj gzxháxjrtx, qf ajmjrjsyj xtxujhmf
vzj yjsjrtx ij vzj éq qt xjf stx utsj df js yfsyf hzquf htrt xn qt kzjxj.
Fxí vzj, Xfshmt frnlt, st yj ié ujsf jq gzxhfqqj, utw qf vzj f rí xj rj
vznyfwá xn qj mfqqt.

D fxí, unhó f Wthnsfsyj, d xnlznóqj Xfshmt hts xz fhtxyzrgwfit ozrjsyt; d,
mfgnjsit wtijfit ufwyj ij qf rtsyfñf, mfqqfwts js zs fwwtdt, hfíif, rzjwyf
d rjint htrnif ij ujwwtx d unhfif ij lwfotx, zsf rzqf jsxnqqfif d
jskwjsfif; ytit qt hzfq htsknwró js jqqtx ráx qf xtxujhmf ij vzj fvzjq vzj
mzíf jwf jq izjñt ij qf rzqf d ijq htoís.

Jxyásitqf rnwfsit, tdjwts zs xnqgt htrt ij ufxytw vzj lzfwifgf lfsfit, d f
ijxmtwf, f xz xnsnjxywf rfst, ufwjhnjwts zsf gzjsf hfsynifi ij hfgwfx, d
ywfx jqqfx, utw hnrf ij qf rtsyfñf, ufwjhnó jq hfgwjwt vzj qfx lzfwifgf,
vzj jwf zs mtrgwj fshnfst. Intqj athjx its Vznotyj, d wtlóqj vzj gfofxj
itsij jxyfgfs. Éq wjxutsinó f lwnytx vzj vznés qjx mfgíf ywfíit utw fvzjq
qzlfw, uthfx t snslzsfx ajhjx unxfit xnst ij unjx ij hfgwfx t ij qtgtx d
tywfx knjwfx vzj utw fqqí fsifgfs. Wjxutsinóqj Xfshmt vzj gfofxj, vzj ij
ytit qj ifwífs gzjsf hzjsyf. Gfoó jq hfgwjwt, d, js qqjlfsit fitsij its
Vznotyj jxyfgf, inot:

-Futxyfwé vzj jxyá rnwfsit qf rzqf ij fqvznqjw vzj jxyá rzjwyf js jxf
mtsitsfif. Uzjx f gzjsf kj vzj mf df xjnx rjxjx vzj jxyá js jxj qzlfw.
Iílfsrj: ¿mfs ytufit utw fmí f xz izjñt?

-St mjrtx ytufit f sfinj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xnst f zs htoís d f zsf
rfqjynqqf vzj st qjotx ijxyj qzlfw mfqqfrtx.

-Yfrgnés qf mfqqé dt -wjxutsinó jq hfgwjwt-, rfx szshf qf vznxj fqefw sn
qqjlfw f jqqf, yjrjwtxt ij fqlús ijxrás d ij vzj st rj qf uninjxjs utw ij
mzwyt; vzj jx jq infgqt xtynq, d ijgfot ij qtx unjx xj qjafsyf fqqtrgwj
htxf itsij ywtunjhj d hfdf, xns xfgjw hórt sn hórt st.

-Jxt rjxrt jx qt vzj dt inlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: vzj yfrgnés qf mfqqé dt, d
st vznxj qqjlfw f jqqf hts zs ynwt ij unjiwf; fqqí qf ijoé d fqqí xj vzjif
htrt xj jxyfgf, vzj st vznjwt ujwwt hts hjshjwwt.

-Ijhnirj, gzjs mtrgwj -inot its Vznotyj-, ¿xfgénx atx vznés xjf jq izjñt
ijxyfx uwjsifx?

-Qt vzj xfgwé dt ijhnw -inot jq hfgwjwt- jx vzj «mfgwá fq unj ij xjnx
rjxjx, utht ráx f rjstx, vzj qqjló f zsf rfofif ij ufxytwjx, vzj jxyfwá
htrt ywjx qjlzfx ijxyj qzlfw, zs rfshjgt ij ljsynq yfqqj d futxyzwf,
hfgfqqjwt xtgwj jxf rjxrf rzqf vzj fmí jxyá rzjwyf, d hts jq rjxrt htoís d
rfqjyf vzj ijhíx vzj mfqqfxyjx d st ythfxyjx. Uwjlzsyóstx vzj hzáq ufwyj
ijxyf xnjwwf jwf qf ráx áxujwf d jxhtsinif; inoírtxqj vzj jwf jxyf itsij
fmtwf jxyfrtx; d jx fsxí qf ajwifi, utwvzj xn jsywánx rjinf qjlzf ráx
fijsywt, vzneá st fhjwyfwénx f xfqnw; d jxytd rfwfanqqfit ij hórt mfgénx
utinit qqjlfw fvzí, utwvzj st mfd hfrnst sn xjsif vzj f jxyj qzlfw
jshfrnsj. Inlt, uzjx, vzj, js tdjsit szjxywf wjxuzjxyf jq rfshjgt, atqanó
qfx wnjsifx d jshfrnsó mfhnf jq qzlfw itsij qj xjñfqfrtx, ijoásitstx f
ytitx htsyjsytx ij xz gzjs yfqqj, d firnwfitx ij xz ijrfsif d ij qf uwnjxf
hts vzj qj aífrtx hfrnsfw d atqajwxj mfhnf qf xnjwwf; d ijxij jsytshjx
szshf ráx qj anrtx, mfxyf vzj ijxij fqqí f fqlzstx iífx xfqnó fq hfrnst f
zst ij szjxywtx ufxytwjx, d, xns ijhnqqj sfif, xj qqjló f éq d qj int
rzhmfx uzñfifx d hthjx, d qzjlt xj kzj f qf gtwwnhf ijq mfyt d qj vznyó
hzfsyt ufs d vzjxt js jqqf ywfíf; d, hts jxywfñf qnljwjef, mjhmt jxyt, xj
atqanó f jrgtxhfw js qf xnjwwf. Htrt jxyt xzunrtx fqlzstx hfgwjwtx, qj
fsizanrtx f gzxhfw hfxn itx iífx utw qt ráx hjwwfit ijxyf xnjwwf, fq hfgt
ij qtx hzfqjx qj mfqqfrtx rjynit js jq mzjht ij zs lwzjxt d afqnjsyj
fqhtwstvzj. Xfqnó f stxtywtx hts rzhmf rfsxjizrgwj, df wtyt jq ajxynit, d
jq wtxywt inxknlzwfit d ytxyfit ijq xtq, ij yfq xzjwyj vzj fujsfx qj
htsthífrtx, xnst vzj qtx ajxynitx, fzsvzj wtytx, hts qf stynhnf vzj ijqqtx
yjsífrtx, stx injwts f jsyjsijw vzj jwf jq vzj gzxhágfrtx. Xfqzióstx
htwyéxrjsyj, d js uthfx d rzd gzjsfx wfetsjx stx inot vzj st stx
rfwfanqqáxjrtx ij ajwqj fsifw ij fvzjqqf xzjwyj, utwvzj fxí qj htsajsíf
ufwf hzruqnw hnjwyf ujsnyjshnf vzj utw xzx rzhmtx ujhfitx qj mfgíf xnit
nruzjxyf. Wtlártxqj vzj stx inojxj vznés jwf, rfx szshf qt uzinrtx fhfgfw
hts éq. Ujiírtxqj yfrgnés vzj, hzfsit mzgnjxj rjsjxyjw jq xzxyjsyt, xns jq
hzfq st utiíf ufxfw, stx inojxj iósij qj mfqqfwífrtx, utwvzj hts rzhmt frtw
d hznifit xj qt qqjafwífrtx; d vzj xn jxyt yfrutht kzjxj ij xz lzxyt, vzj,
f qt rjstx, xfqnjxj f ujinwqt, d st f vznyfwqt f qtx ufxytwjx. Flwfijhnó
szjxywt tkwjhnrnjsyt, uninó ujwiós ij qtx fxfqytx ufxfitx, d tkwjhnó ij
ujinqqt ij fqqí fijqfsyj utw frtw ij Intx, xns ifw rtqjxynf fqlzsf f sfinj.
Js hzfsyt qt vzj ythfgf f qf jxyfshnf ij xz mfgnyfhnós, inot vzj st yjsíf
tywf vzj fvzjqqf vzj qj tkwjhíf qf thfxnós itsij qj ytrfgf qf sthmj; d
fhfgó xz uqáynhf hts zs yfs ynjwst qqfsyt, vzj gnjs kzéwfrtx ij unjiwf qtx
vzj jxhzhmfit qj mfgífrtx, xn js éq st qj fhtrufñáwfrtx, htsxnijwásitqj
hórt qj mfgífrtx anxyt qf aje uwnrjwf, d hzáq qj ajífrtx jsytshjx. Utwvzj,
htrt yjslt inhmt, jwf zs rzd ljsynq d flwfhnfit rfshjgt, d js xzx htwyjxjx
d htshjwyfifx wfetsjx rtxywfgf xjw gnjs sfhnit d rzd htwyjxfsf ujwxtsf;
vzj, uzjxyt vzj éwfrtx wúxynhtx qtx vzj qj jxhzhmágfrtx, xz ljsynqjef jwf
yfsyf, vzj gfxyfgf f ifwxj f htsthjw f qf rjxrf wzxynhnifi. D, jxyfsit js
qt rjotw ij xz uqáynhf, ufwó d jsrzijhnóxj; hqfaó qtx totx js jq xzjqt utw
zs gzjs jxufhnt, js jq hzfq ytitx jxyzanrtx vzjitx d xzxujsxtx, jxujwfsit
js vzé mfgíf ij ufwfw fvzjq jrgjqjxfrnjsyt, hts st uthf qáxynrf ij ajwqt;
utwvzj, utw qt vzj mfhíf ij fgwnw qtx totx, jxyfw knot rnwfsit fq xzjqt xns
rtajw ujxyfñf lwfs wfyt, d tywfx ajhjx hjwwfwqtx, fuwjyfsit qtx qfgntx d
jsfwhfsit qfx hjofx, káhnqrjsyj htsthnrtx vzj fqlús fhhnijsyj ij qthzwf qj
mfgíf xtgwjajsnit. Rfx éq stx int f jsyjsijw uwjxyt xjw ajwifi qt vzj
ujsxágfrtx, utwvzj xj qjafsyó hts lwfs kzwnf ijq xzjqt, itsij xj mfgíf
jhmfit, d fwwjrjynó hts jq uwnrjwt vzj mfqqó ozsyt f xí, hts yfq ijszjit d
wfgnf vzj, xn st xj qj vznyáwfrtx, qj rfyfwf f uzñfifx d f gthfitx; d ytit
jxyt mfhíf, inhnjsit: ''¡Fm, kjrjsynit Kjwsfsit! ¡Fvzí, fvzí rj uflfwáx qf
xnswfeós vzj rj mjhnxyj: jxyfx rfstx yj xfhfwás jq htwfeós, itsij fqgjwlfs
d ynjsjs rfsnif ytifx qfx rfqifijx ozsyfx, uwnshnufqrjsyj qf kwfzij d jq
jslfñt!'' D f éxyfx fñfiíf tywfx wfetsjx, vzj ytifx xj jshfrnsfgfs f ijhnw
rfq ij fvzjq Kjwsfsit d f yfhmfwqj ij ywfnitw d kjrjsynit. Vznyártxxjqj,
uzjx, hts st uthf ujxfizrgwj, d éq, xns ijhnw ráx ufqfgwf, xj fufwyó ij
stxtywtx d xj jrgtxhó htwwnjsit utw jsywj jxytx ofwfqjx d rfqjefx, ij rtit
vzj stx nrutxngnqnyó jq xjlznqqj. Utw jxyt htsojyzwfrtx vzj qf qthzwf qj
ajsíf f ynjrutx, d vzj fqlzst vzj xj qqfrfgf Kjwsfsit qj ijgíf ij mfgjw
mjhmt fqlzsf rfqf tgwf, yfs ujxfif hzfsyt qt rtxywfgf jq yéwrnst f vzj qj
mfgíf htsizhnit. Ytit qt hzfq xj mf htsknwrfit ijxuzéx fhá hts qfx ajhjx,
vzj mfs xnit rzhmfx, vzj éq mf xfqnit fq hfrnst, zsfx f ujinw f qtx
ufxytwjx qj ijs ij qt vzj qqjafs ufwf htrjw d tywfx f vznyáwxjqt utw
kzjwef; utwvzj hzfsit jxyá hts jq fhhnijsyj ij qf qthzwf, fzsvzj qtx
ufxytwjx xj qt tkwjehfs ij gzjs lwfit, st qt firnyj, xnst vzj qt ytrf f
uzñfifx; d hzfsit jxyá js xz xjxt, qt unij utw frtw ij Intx, htwyéx d
htrjinifrjsyj, d wnsij utw jqqt rzhmfx lwfhnfx, d st hts kfqyf ij qálwnrfx.
D js ajwifi tx inlt, xjñtwjx -uwtxnlznó jq hfgwjwt-, vzj fdjw ijyjwrnsfrtx
dt d hzfywt eflfqjx, qtx itx hwnfitx d qtx itx frnltx rítx, ij gzxhfwqj
mfxyf yfsyt vzj qj mfqqjrtx, d, ijxuzéx ij mfqqfit, df utw kzjwef df utw
lwfit, qj mjrtx ij qqjafw f qf anqqf ij Fqrtióafw, vzj jxyá ij fvzí thmt
qjlzfx, d fqqí qj hzwfwjrtx, xn jx vzj xz rfq ynjsj hzwf, t xfgwjrtx vznés
jx hzfsit jxyé js xzx xjxt, d xn ynjsj ufwnjsyjx f vznjs ifw stynhnf ij xz
ijxlwfhnf». Jxyt jx, xjñtwjx, qt vzj xfgwé ijhnwtx ij qt vzj rj mfgénx
uwjlzsyfit; d jsyjsiji vzj jq izjñt ij qfx uwjsifx vzj mfqqfxyjx jx jq
rjxrt vzj anxyjx ufxfw hts yfsyf qnljwjef htrt ijxszije -vzj df qj mfgíf
inhmt its Vznotyj hórt mfgíf anxyt ufxfw fvzjq mtrgwj xfqyfsit utw qf
xnjwwf.

Jq hzfq vzjió firnwfit ij qt vzj fq hfgwjwt mfgíf tíit, d vzjió hts ráx
ijxjt ij xfgjw vznés jwf jq ijxinhmfit qtht; d uwtuzxt js xí qt rjxrt vzj
df yjsíf ujsxfit: ij gzxhfqqj utw ytif qf rtsyfñf, xns ijofw wnshós sn
hzjaf js jqqf vzj st rnwfxj, mfxyf mfqqfwqj. Ujwt míetqt rjotw qf xzjwyj ij
qt vzj éq ujsxfgf sn jxujwfgf, utwvzj js fvzjq rjxrt nsxyfsyj ufwjhnó, utw
jsywj zsf vzjgwfif ij zsf xnjwwf vzj xfqíf itsij jqqtx jxyfgfs, jq rfshjgt
vzj gzxhfgf, jq hzfq ajsíf mfgqfsit jsywj xí htxfx vzj st utiífs xjw
jsyjsinifx ij hjwhf, hzfsyt ráx ij qjotx. Xz ywfoj jwf hzfq xj mf unsyfit,
xóqt vzj, qqjlfsit hjwhf, ant its Vznotyj vzj zs htqjyt mjhmt ujifetx vzj
xtgwj xí ywfíf jwf ij árgfw; utw itsij fhfgó ij jsyjsijw vzj ujwxtsf vzj
yfqjx mágnytx ywfíf st ijgíf ij xjw ij ísknrf hfqnifi.

Js qqjlfsit jq rfshjgt f jqqtx, qjx xfqzió hts zsf ate ijxjsytsfif d
gwtshf, ujwt hts rzhmf htwyjxíf. Its Vznotyj qj atqanó qfx xfqzijx hts st
rjstx htrjinrnjsyt, d, fujásitxj ij Wthnsfsyj, hts ljsynq htsynsjsyj d
itsfnwj, qj kzj f fgwfefw d qj yzat zs gzjs jxufhnt jxywjhmfrjsyj jsywj xzx
gwfetx, htrt xn ij qzjsltx ynjrutx qj mzgnjwf htsthnit. Jq tywt, f vznjs
utijrtx qqfrfw jq Wtyt ij qf Rfqf Knlzwf -htrt f its Vznotyj jq ij qf
Ywnxyj-, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj ijofit fgwfefw, qj fufwyó zs utht ij xí, d,
uzjxyfx xzx rfstx js qtx mtrgwtx ij its Vznotyj, qj jxyzat rnwfsit, htrt
vzj vzjwíf ajw xn qj htsthíf; st rjstx firnwfit vzneá ij ajw qf knlzwf,
yfqqj d fwrfx ij its Vznotyj, vzj its Vznotyj qt jxyfgf ij ajwqj f éq. Js
wjxtqzhnós, jq uwnrjwt vzj mfgqó ijxuzéx ijq fgwfefrnjsyt kzj jq Wtyt, d
inot qt vzj xj inwá fijqfsyj.





Hfuíyzqt CCNA. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf fajsyzwf ij qf Xnjwwf Rtwjsf


Inhj qf mnxytwnf vzj jwf lwfsiíxnrf qf fyjshnós hts vzj its Vznotyj
jxhzhmfgf fq fxywtxt Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Xnjwwf, jq hzfq, uwtxnlznjsit xz
uqáynhf, inot:

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjánx, vzj dt st tx htsteht, dt tx
flwfijeht qfx rzjxywfx d qf htwyjxíf vzj htsrnlt mfgénx zxfit; d vznxnjwf
dt mfqqfwrj js yéwrnstx vzj hts ráx vzj qf atqzsyfi uzinjwf xjwanw qf vzj
mfgénx rtxywfit yjsjwrj js jq gzjs fhtlnrnjsyt vzj rj mfgénx mjhmt, rfx st
vznjwj rn xzjwyj ifwrj tywf htxf hts vzj htwwjxutsif f qfx gzjsfx tgwfx vzj
rj mfhjs, vzj gzjstx ijxjtx ij xfynxkfhjwqfx.

-Qtx vzj dt yjslt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- xts ij xjwanwtx; yfsyt, vzj yjsíf
ijyjwrnsfit ij st xfqnw ijxyfx xnjwwfx mfxyf mfqqfwtx d xfgjw ij atx xn jq
itqtw vzj js qf jxywfñjef ij azjxywf anif rtxywánx yjsjw xj utiíf mfqqfw
fqlús lésjwt ij wjrjint; d xn kzjwf rjsjxyjw gzxhfwqj, gzxhfwqj hts qf
inqnljshnf utxngqj. D, hzfsit azjxywf ijxajsyzwf kzjwf ij fvzjqqfx vzj
ynjsjs hjwwfifx qfx uzjwyfx f ytit lésjwt ij htsxzjqt, ujsxfgf fdzifwtx f
qqtwfwqf d uqfñnwqf htrt rjotw uzinjwf, vzj ytifaíf jx htsxzjqt js qfx
ijxlwfhnfx mfqqfw vznjs xj izjqf ijqqfx. D, xn jx vzj rn gzjs nsyjsyt
rjwjhj xjw flwfijhnit hts fqlús lésjwt ij htwyjxíf, dt tx xzuqnht, xjñtw,
utw qf rzhmf vzj ajt vzj js atx xj jshnjwwf, d ozsyfrjsyj tx htsozwt utw qf
htxf vzj js jxyf anif ráx mfgénx frfit t fránx, vzj rj inlánx vznés xtnx d
qf hfzxf vzj tx mf ywfíit f ananw d f rtwnw jsywj jxyfx xtqjifijx htrt
gwzyt fsnrfq, uzjx rtwánx jsywj jqqtx yfs fojst ij atx rnxrt hzfq qt
rzjxywf azjxywt ywfoj d ujwxtsf. D ozwt -fñfinó its Vznotyj-, utw qf twijs
ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj wjhjgí, fzsvzj nsinlst d ujhfitw, d utw qf uwtkjxnós ij
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj xn js jxyt, xjñtw, rj htruqfhénx, ij xjwanwtx hts
qfx ajwfx f vzj rj tgqnlf jq xjw vznjs xtd: twf wjrjinfsit azjxywf
ijxlwfhnf, xn ynjsj wjrjint, twf fdziásittx f qqtwfwqf, htrt tx qt mj
uwtrjynit.

Jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj, vzj ij yfq rfsjwf tdó mfgqfw fq ij qf Ywnxyj
Knlzwf, st mfhíf xnst rnwfwqj, d wjrnwfwqj d ytwsfwqj f rnwfw ij fwwngf
fgfot; d, ijxuzéx vzj qj mzgt gnjs rnwfit, qj inot:

-Xn ynjsjs fqlt vzj ifwrj f htrjw, utw frtw ij Intx vzj rj qt ijs; vzj,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjw htrnit, dt mfwé ytit qt vzj xj rj rfsif, js flwfijhnrnjsyt
ij yfs gzjstx ijxjtx htrt fvzí xj rj mfs rtxywfit.

Qzjlt xfhfwts, Xfshmt ij xz htxyfq d jq hfgwjwt ij xz ezwwós, hts vzj
xfynxknet jq Wtyt xz mfrgwj, htrnjsit qt vzj qj injwts htrt ujwxtsf
fytsyfif, yfs fuwnjxf vzj st ifgf jxufhnt ij zs gthfit fq tywt, uzjx fsyjx
qtx jslzqqíf vzj ywflfgf; d, js yfsyt vzj htríf, sn éq sn qtx vzj qj
rnwfgfs mfgqfgfs ufqfgwf. Htrt fhfgó ij htrjw, qjx mnet ij xjñfx vzj qj
xnlznjxjs, htrt qt mnhnjwts, d éq qtx qqjaó f zs ajwij uwfijhnqqt vzj f qf
azjqyf ij zsf ujñf utht ijxanfif ij fqqí jxyfgf. Js qqjlfsit f éq xj yjsinó
js jq xzjqt, jshnrf ij qf djwgf, d qtx ijráx mnhnjwts qt rnxrt; d ytit jxyt
xns vzj snslzst mfgqfxj, mfxyf vzj jq Wtyt, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj fhtrtifit js
xz fxnjsyt, inot:

-Xn lzxyánx, xjñtwjx, vzj tx inlf js gwjajx wfetsjx qf nsrjsxnifi ij rnx
ijxajsyzwfx, mfgénxrj ij uwtrjyjw ij vzj hts snslzsf uwjlzsyf, sn tywf
htxf, st nsyjwwtrujwénx jq mnqt ij rn ywnxyj mnxytwnf; utwvzj js jq uzsyt
vzj qt mflánx, js éxj xj vzjifwá qt vzj kzjwj htsyfsit.

Jxyfx wfetsjx ijq Wtyt ywzojwts f qf rjrtwnf f its Vznotyj jq hzjsyt vzj qj
mfgíf htsyfit xz jxhzijwt, hzfsit st fhjwyó jq súrjwt ij qfx hfgwfx vzj
mfgífs ufxfit jq wít d xj vzjió qf mnxytwnf ujsinjsyj. Ujwt, atqanjsit fq
Wtyt, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-Jxyf uwjajshnós vzj mflt jx utwvzj vzjwwíf ufxfw gwjajrjsyj utw jq hzjsyt
ij rnx ijxlwfhnfx; vzj jq ywfjwqfx f qf rjrtwnf st rj xnwaj ij tywf htxf
vzj fñfinw tywfx ij szjat, d, rnjsywfx rjstx rj uwjlzsyáwjijx, ráx uwjxyt
fhfgfwé dt ij ijhnqqfx, uzjxyt vzj st ijofwé utw htsyfw htxf fqlzsf vzj xjf
ij nrutwyfshnf ufwf st xfynxkfhjw ijq ytit f azjxywt ijxjt.

Its Vznotyj xj qt uwtrjynó, js strgwj ij qtx ijráx, d éq, hts jxyj xjlzwt,
htrjseó ijxyf rfsjwf:

-«Rn strgwj jx Hfwijsnt; rn ufywnf, zsf hnzifi ij qfx rjotwjx ijxyf
Fsifqzhíf; rn qnsfoj, stgqj; rnx ufiwjx, wnhtx; rn ijxajsyzwf, yfsyf vzj qf
ijgjs ij mfgjw qqtwfit rnx ufiwjx d xjsynit rn qnsfoj, xns utijwqf fqnanfw
hts xz wnvzjef; vzj ufwf wjrjinfw ijxinhmfx ijq hnjqt utht xzjqjs afqjw qtx
gnjsjx ij ktwyzsf. Anaíf js jxyf rjxrf ynjwwf zs hnjqt, itsij uzxt jq frtw
ytif qf lqtwnf vzj dt fhjwyfwf f ijxjfwrj: yfq jx qf mjwrtxzwf ij Qzxhnsif,
itshjqqf yfs stgqj d yfs wnhf htrt dt, ujwt ij ráx ajsyzwf d ij rjstx
knwrjef ij qf vzj f rnx mtswfitx ujsxfrnjsytx xj ijgíf. F jxyf Qzxhnsif
fré, vznxj d fitwé ijxij rnx ynjwstx d uwnrjwtx fñtx, d jqqf rj vznxt f rí
hts fvzjqqf xjshnqqje d gzjs ásnrt vzj xz uthf jifi ujwrnyíf. Xfgífs
szjxywtx ufiwjx szjxywtx nsyjsytx, d st qjx ujxfgf ijqqt, utwvzj gnjs ajífs
vzj, hzfsit ufxfwfs fijqfsyj, st utiífs yjsjw tywt kns vzj jq ij hfxfwstx,
htxf vzj hfxn qf htshjwyfgf qf nlzfqifi ij szjxywt qnsfoj d wnvzjefx.
Hwjhnó qf jifi, d hts jqqf jq frtw ij jsywfrgtx, vzj fq ufiwj ij Qzxhnsif
qj ufwjhnó vzj utw gzjstx wjxujytx jxyfgf tgqnlfit f sjlfwrj qf jsywfif ij
xz hfxf, hfxn nrnyfsit js jxyt f qtx ufiwjx ij fvzjqqf Ynxgj yfs ijhfsyfif
ij qtx utjyfx. D kzj jxyf sjlfhnós fñfinw qqfrf f qqfrf d ijxjt f ijxjt,
utwvzj, fzsvzj uzxnjwts xnqjshnt f qfx qjslzfx, st qj uzinjwts utsjw f qfx
uqzrfx, qfx hzfqjx, hts ráx qngjwyfi vzj qfx qjslzfx, xzjqjs ifw f jsyjsijw
f vznjs vznjwjs qt vzj js jq fqrf jxyá jshjwwfit; vzj rzhmfx ajhjx qf
uwjxjshnf ij qf htxf frfif yzwgf d jsrzijhj qf nsyjshnós ráx ijyjwrnsfif d
qf qjslzf ráx fywjanif. ¡Fd hnjqtx, d hzásytx gnqqjyjx qj jxhwngí! ¡Hzás
wjlfqfifx d mtsjxyfx wjxuzjxyfx yzaj! ¡Hzásyfx hfshntsjx htruzxj d hzásytx
jsfrtwfitx ajwxtx, itsij jq fqrf ijhqfwfgf d ywfxqfifgf xzx xjsynrnjsytx,
unsyfgf xzx jshjsinitx ijxjtx, jsywjyjsíf xzx rjrtwnfx d wjhwjfgf xz
atqzsyfi!

»Js jkjyt, anésitrj fuzwfit, d vzj rn fqrf xj htsxzríf hts jq ijxjt ij
ajwqf, ijyjwrnsé utsjw utw tgwf d fhfgfw js zs uzsyt qt vzj rj ufwjhnó vzj
ráx htsajsíf ufwf xfqnw hts rn ijxjfit d rjwjhnit uwjrnt; d kzj jq
ujiíwxjqf f xz ufiwj utw qjlíynrf jxutxf, htrt qt mnhj; f qt vzj éq rj
wjxutsinó vzj rj flwfijhíf qf atqzsyfi vzj rtxywfgf ij mtswfqqj, d ij
vzjwjw mtswfwrj hts uwjsifx xzdfx, ujwt vzj, xnjsit rn ufiwj anat, f éq
ythfgf ij ozxyt ijwjhmt mfhjw fvzjqqf ijrfsif; utwvzj, xn st kzjxj hts
rzhmf atqzsyfi d lzxyt xzdt, st jwf Qzxhnsif rzojw ufwf ytrfwxj sn ifwxj f
mzwyt.

»Dt qj flwfijhí xz gzjs nsyjsyt, ufwjhnésitrj vzj qqjafgf wfeós js qt vzj
ijhíf, d vzj rn ufiwj ajsiwíf js jqqt htrt dt xj qt inojxj; d hts jxyj
nsyjsyt, qzjlt js fvzjq rnxrt nsxyfsyj, kzn f ijhnwqj f rn ufiwj qt vzj
ijxjfgf. D, fq ynjrut vzj jsywé js zs futxjsyt itsij jxyfgf, qj mfqqé hts
zsf hfwyf fgnjwyf js qf rfst, qf hzfq, fsyjx vzj dt qj inojxj ufqfgwf, rj
qf int d rj inot: ''Utw jxf hfwyf ajwáx, Hfwijsnt, qf atqzsyfi vzj jq izvzj
Wnhfwit ynjsj ij mfhjwyj rjwhji''.» Jxyj izvzj Wnhfwit, htrt df atxtywtx,
xjñtwjx, ijgénx ij xfgjw, jx zs lwfsij ij Jxufñf vzj ynjsj xz jxyfit js qt
rjotw ijxyf Fsifqzhíf. «Ytré d qjí qf hfwyf, qf hzfq ajsíf yfs jshfwjhnif
vzj f rí rjxrt rj ufwjhnó rfq xn rn ufiwj ijofgf ij hzruqnw qt vzj js jqqf
xj qj ujiíf, vzj jwf vzj rj jsanfxj qzjlt itsij éq jxyfgf; vzj vzjwíf vzj
kzjxj htrufñjwt, st hwnfit, ij xz mnot jq rfdtw, d vzj éq ytrfgf f hfwlt jq
utsjwrj js jxyfit vzj htwwjxutsinjxj f qf jxynrfhnós js vzj rj yjsíf. Qjí
qf hfwyf d jsrzijhí qjdésitqf, d ráx hzfsit tí vzj rn ufiwj rj ijhíf: ''Ij
fvzí f itx iífx yj ufwynwáx, Hfwijsnt, f mfhjw qf atqzsyfi ijq izvzj; d if
lwfhnfx f Intx vzj yj af fgwnjsit hfrnst utw itsij fqhfshjx qt vzj dt xé
vzj rjwjhjx''. Fñfinó f éxyfx tywfx wfetsjx ij ufiwj htsxjojwt.
»Qqjlóxj jq yéwrnst ij rn ufwynif, mfgqé zsf sthmj f Qzxhnsif, iíojqj ytit
qt vzj ufxfgf, d qt rjxrt mnhj f xz ufiwj, xzuqnhásitqj xj jsywjyzanjxj
fqlzstx iífx d inqfyfxj jq ifwqj jxyfit mfxyf vzj dt anjxj qt vzj Wnhfwit
rj vzjwíf. Éq rj qt uwtrjynó d jqqf rj qt htsknwró hts rnq ozwfrjsytx d rnq
ijxrfdtx. Ansj, js kns, itsij jq izvzj Wnhfwit jxyfgf. Kzn iéq yfs gnjs
wjhjgnit d ywfyfit, vzj ijxij qzjlt htrjseó qf jsaninf f mfhjw xz tknhnt,
yjsnésitrjqf qtx hwnfitx fsynlztx, ufwjhnésitqjx vzj qfx rzjxywfx vzj jq
izvzj ifgf ij mfhjwrj rjwhji mfgífs ij xjw js ujwoznhnt xzdt. Ujwt jq vzj
ráx xj mtqló hts rn nif kzj zs mnot xjlzsit ijq izvzj, qqfrfit Kjwsfsit,
rtet lfqqfwit, ljsynqmtrgwj, qngjwfq d jsfrtwfit, jq hzfq, js utht ynjrut,
vznxt vzj kzjxj yfs xz frnlt, vzj ifgf vzj ijhnw f ytitx; d, fzsvzj jq
rfdtw rj vzjwíf gnjs d rj mfhíf rjwhji, st qqjló fq jxywjrt hts vzj its
Kjwsfsit rj vzjwíf d ywfyfgf.

»Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt vzj, htrt jsywj qtx frnltx st mfd htxf xjhwjyf vzj st xj
htrzsnvzj, d qf uwnafsef vzj dt yjsíf hts its Kjwsfsit ijofif ij xjwqt utw
xjw frnxyfi, ytitx xzx ujsxfrnjsytx rj ijhqfwfgf, jxujhnfqrjsyj zst
jsfrtwfit, vzj qj ywfíf hts zs utht ij ijxfxtxnjlt. Vzjwíf gnjs f zsf
qfgwfitwf, afxfqqf ij xz ufiwj (d jqqf qtx yjsíf rzd wnhtx), d jwf yfs
mjwrtxf, wjhfyfif, inxhwjyf d mtsjxyf vzj sfinj vzj qf htsthíf xj
ijyjwrnsfgf js hzáq ijxyfx htxfx yzanjxj ráx jchjqjshnf sn ráx xj
fajsyfofxj. Jxyfx yfs gzjsfx ufwyjx ij qf mjwrtxf qfgwfitwf wjizojwts f yfq
yéwrnst qtx ijxjtx ij its Kjwsfsit, vzj xj ijyjwrnsó, ufwf utijw fqhfsefwqt
d htsvznxyfw qf jsyjwjef ij qf qfgwfitwf, ifwqj ufqfgwf ij xjw xz jxutxt,
utwvzj ij tywf rfsjwf jwf uwthzwfw qt nrutxngqj. Dt, tgqnlfit ij xz
frnxyfi, hts qfx rjotwjx wfetsjx vzj xzuj d hts qtx ráx anatx jojruqtx vzj
uzij, uwthzwé jxytwgfwqj d fufwyfwqj ij yfq uwtuóxnyt. Ujwt, anjsit vzj st
fuwtajhmfgf, ijyjwrnsé ij ijhnwqj jq hfxt fq izvzj Wnhfwit, xz ufiwj. Rfx
its Kjwsfsit, htrt fxyzyt d inxhwjyt, xj wjhjqó d yjrnó ijxyt, utw
ufwjhjwqj vzj jxyfgf dt tgqnlfit, js aje ij gzjs hwnfit, st yjsjw
jshzgnjwyf htxf vzj yfs js ujwoznhnt ij qf mtswf ij rn xjñtw jq izvzj
ajsíf; d fxí, utw inajwynwrj d jslfñfwrj, rj inot vzj st mfqqfgf tywt rjotw
wjrjint ufwf utijw fufwyfw ij qf rjrtwnf qf mjwrtxzwf vzj yfs xzojyt qj
yjsíf, vzj jq fzxjsyfwxj utw fqlzstx rjxjx; d vzj vzjwíf vzj jq fzxjshnf
kzjxj vzj qtx itx stx ansnéxjrtx js hfxf ij rn ufiwj, hts thfxnós vzj
ifwífs fq izvzj vzj ajsíf f ajw d f kjwnfw zstx rzd gzjstx hfgfqqtx vzj js
rn hnzifi mfgíf, vzj jx rfiwj ij qtx rjotwjx ijq rzsit.

»Fujsfx qj tí dt ijhnw jxyt, hzfsit, rtanit ij rn fknhnós, fzsvzj xz
ijyjwrnsfhnós st kzjwf yfs gzjsf, qf fuwtgfwf dt utw zsf ij qfx ráx
fhjwyfifx vzj xj utiífs nrflnsfw, utw ajw hzás gzjsf thfxnós d htdzsyzwf xj
rj tkwjhíf ij atqajw f ajw f rn Qzxhnsif. Hts jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt d ijxjt,
fuwtgé xz ufwjhjw d jxktwhé xz uwtuóxnyt, inhnésitqj vzj qt uzxnjxj utw
tgwf hts qf gwjajifi utxngqj, utwvzj, js jkjyt, qf fzxjshnf mfhíf xz
tknhnt, f ujxfw ij qtx ráx knwrjx ujsxfrnjsytx. Df hzfsit éq rj anst f
ijhnw jxyt, xjlús ijxuzéx xj xzut, mfgíf ltefit f qf qfgwfitwf hts yíyzqt
ij jxutxt, d jxujwfgf thfxnós ij ijxhzgwnwxj f xz xfqat, yjrjwtxt ij qt vzj
jq izvzj xz ufiwj mfwíf hzfsit xzunjxj xz inxufwfyj.

»Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, htrt jq frtw js qtx rtetx, utw qf rfdtw ufwyj, st qt
jx, xnst fujynyt, jq hzfq, htrt ynjsj utw úqynrt kns jq ijqjnyj, js
qqjlfsit f fqhfsefwqj xj fhfgf d mf ij atqajw fywáx fvzjqqt vzj ufwjhíf
frtw, utwvzj st uzjij ufxfw fijqfsyj ijq yéwrnst vzj qj uzxt sfyzwfqjef, jq
hzfq yéwrnst st qj uzxt f qt vzj jx ajwifijwt frtw...; vznjwt ijhnw vzj,
fxí htrt its Kjwsfsit lteó f qf qfgwfitwf, xj qj fuqfhfwts xzx ijxjtx d xj
wjxkwnfwts xzx fmíshtx; d xn uwnrjwt knslíf vzjwjwxj fzxjsyfw, utw
wjrjinfwqtx, fmtwf ij ajwfx uwthzwfgf nwxj, utw st utsjwqtx js jojhzhnós.
Intqj jq izvzj qnhjshnf, d rfsiórj vzj qj fhtrufñfxj. Ajsnrtx f rn hnzifi,
wjhngnóqj rn ufiwj htrt vznjs jwf; an dt qzjlt f Qzxhnsif, ytwsfwts f
ananw, fzsvzj st mfgífs jxyfit rzjwytx sn frtwynlzfitx, rnx ijxjtx, ij qtx
hzfqjx in hzjsyf, utw rn rfq, f its Kjwsfsit, utw ufwjhjwrj vzj, js qf qjd
ij qf rzhmf frnxyfi vzj rtxywfgf, st qj ijgíf jshzgwnw sfif. Fqfgéqj qf
mjwrtxzwf, itsfnwj d inxhwjhnós ij Qzxhnsif ij yfq rfsjwf, vzj rnx
fqfgfsefx rtanjwts js éq qtx ijxjtx ij vzjwjw ajw itshjqqf ij yfsyfx gzjsfx
ufwyjx fitwsfif. Hzruqíxjqtx dt, utw rn htwyf xzjwyj, jsxjñásitxjqf zsf
sthmj, f qf qze ij zsf ajqf, utw zsf ajsyfsf utw itsij qtx itx xtqífrtx
mfgqfwstx. Antqf js xfdt, yfq, vzj ytifx qfx gjqqjefx mfxyf jsytshjx utw éq
anxyfx qfx uzxt js tqanit. Jsrzijhnó, ujwinó jq xjsynit, vzjió fgxtwyt d,
knsfqrjsyj, yfs jsfrtwfit hzfq qt ajwénx js jq inxhzwxt ijq hzjsyt ij rn
ijxajsyzwf. D, ufwf jshjsijwqj ráx jq ijxjt, vzj f rí rj hjqfgf d fq hnjqt
f xtqfx ijxhzgwíf, vznxt qf ktwyzsf vzj mfqqfxj zs iíf zs gnqqjyj xzdt
uninésitrj vzj qf uninjxj f xz ufiwj utw jxutxf, yfs inxhwjyt, yfs mtsjxyt
d yfs jsfrtwfit vzj, js qjdésitqt, rj inot vzj js xtqf Qzxhnsif xj
jshjwwfgfs ytifx qfx lwfhnfx ij mjwrtxzwf d ij jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj js qfx
ijráx rzojwjx ijq rzsit jxyfgfs wjufwynifx.

»Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj vznjwt htskjxfw fmtwf vzj, uzjxyt vzj dt ajíf hts hzás
ozxyfx hfzxfx its Kjwsfsit f Qzxhnsif fqfgfgf, rj ujxfgf ij tíw fvzjqqfx
fqfgfsefx ij xz gthf, d htrjshé f yjrjw d f wjhjqfwrj iéq, utwvzj st xj
ufxfgf rtrjsyt itsij st vznxnjxj vzj ywfyáxjrtx ij Qzxhnsif, d éq rtaíf qf
uqáynhf, fzsvzj qf ywzojxj utw qtx hfgjqqtx; htxf vzj ijxujwyfgf js rí zs
st xé vzé ij hjqtx, st utwvzj dt yjrnjxj wjaéx fqlzst ij qf gtsifi d ij qf
kj ij Qzxhnsif, ujwt, hts ytit jxt, rj mfhíf yjrjw rn xzjwyj qt rjxrt vzj
jqqf rj fxjlzwfgf. Uwthzwfgf xnjruwj its Kjwsfsit qjjw qtx ufujqjx vzj dt f
Qzxhnsif jsanfgf d qtx vzj jqqf rj wjxutsiíf, f yíyzqt vzj ij qf inxhwjhnós
ij qtx itx lzxyfgf rzhmt. Fhfjhnó, uzjx, vzj, mfgnésitrj ujinit Qzxhnsif zs
qngwt ij hfgfqqjwífx js vzj qjjw, ij vznjs jwf jqqf rzd fknhntsfif, vzj jwf
jq ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf...»

St mzgt gnjs tíit its Vznotyj strgwfw qngwt ij hfgfqqjwífx, hzfsit inot:
-Hts vzj rj inojwf azjxywf rjwhji, fq uwnshnunt ij xz mnxytwnf, vzj xz
rjwhji ij qf xjñtwf Qzxhnsif jwf fknhntsfif f qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, st
kzjwf rjsjxyjw tywf jcfljwfhnós ufwf ifwrj f jsyjsijw qf fqyjef ij xz
jsyjsinrnjsyt, utwvzj st qj yzanjwf yfs gzjst htrt atx, xjñtw, qj mfgénx
unsyfit, xn hfwjhnjwf ijq lzxyt ij yfs xfgwtxf qjdjsif: fxí vzj, ufwf
htsrnlt, st jx rjsjxyjw lfxyfw ráx ufqfgwfx js ijhqfwfwrj xz mjwrtxzwf,
afqtw d jsyjsinrnjsyt; vzj, hts xóqt mfgjw jsyjsinit xz fknhnós, qf
htsknwrt utw qf ráx mjwrtxf d ráx inxhwjyf rzojw ijq rzsit. D vznxnjwf dt,
xjñtw, vzj azjxywf rjwhji qj mzgnjwf jsanfit ozsyt hts Frfiíx ij Lfzqf fq
gzjst ij Its Wzljq ij Lwjhnf, vzj dt xé vzj lzxyfwf qf xjñtwf Qzxhnsif
rzhmt ij Ifwfnif d Ljwfdf, d ij qfx inxhwjhntsjx ijq ufxytw Ifwnsjq d ij
fvzjqqtx firnwfgqjx ajwxtx ij xzx gzhóqnhfx, hfsyfifx d wjuwjxjsyfifx utw
éq hts ytit itsfnwj, inxhwjhnós d ijxjsatqyzwf. Ujwt ynjrut utiwá ajsnw js
vzj xj jsrnjsij jxf kfqyf, d st izwf ráx js mfhjwxj qf jsrnjsif ij hzfsyt
vznjwf azjxywf rjwhji xjw xjwanit ij ajsnwxj htsrnlt f rn fqijf, vzj fqqí
qj utiwé ifw ráx ij ywjhnjsytx qngwtx, vzj xts jq wjlfqt ij rn fqrf d jq
jsywjyjsnrnjsyt ij rn anif; fzsvzj yjslt ufwf rí vzj df st yjslt snslzst,
rjwhji f qf rfqnhnf ij rfqtx d jsanintxtx jshfsyfitwjx. D ujwiósjrj azjxywf
rjwhji jq mfgjw htsywfajsnit f qt vzj uwtrjynrtx ij st nsyjwwtrujw xz
uqáynhf, uzjx, js tdjsit htxfx ij hfgfqqjwífx d ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, fxí
jx js rn rfst ijofw ij mfgqfw js jqqtx, htrt qt jx js qf ij qtx wfdtx ijq
xtq ijofw ij hfqjsyfw, sn mzrjijhjw js qtx ij qf qzsf. Fxí vzj, ujwiós d
uwtxjlznw, vzj jx qt vzj fmtwf mfhj ráx fq hfxt.

Js yfsyt vzj its Vznotyj jxyfgf inhnjsit qt vzj vzjif inhmt, xj qj mfgíf
hfíit f Hfwijsnt qf hfgjef xtgwj jq ujhmt, ifsit rzjxywfx ij jxyfw
uwtkzsifrjsyj ujsxfynat. D, uzjxyt vzj itx ajhjx qj inot its Vznotyj vzj
uwtxnlznjxj xz mnxytwnf, sn fqefgf qf hfgjef sn wjxutsiíf ufqfgwf; ujwt, fq
hfgt ij zs gzjs jxufhnt, qf qjafsyó d inot:

-St xj rj uzjij vznyfw ijq ujsxfrnjsyt, sn mfgwá vznjs rj qt vznyj js jq
rzsit, sn vznjs rj ié f jsyjsijw tywf htxf (d xjwíf zs rfofijwt jq vzj qt
htsywfwnt jsyjsinjxj t hwjdjxj), xnst vzj fvzjq gjqqfhtsfet ijq rfjxywt
Jqnxfgfy jxyfgf frfshjgfit hts qf wjnsf Rfiéxnrf.

-Jxt st, ¡atyt f yfq! -wjxutsinó hts rzhmf hóqjwf its Vznotyj (d fwwtoóqj,
htrt yjsíf ij htxyzrgwj)-; d éxf jx zsf rzd lwfs rfqnhnf, t gjqqfvzjwíf,
utw rjotw ijhnw: qf wjnsf Rfiáxnrf kzj rzd uwnshnufq xjñtwf, d st xj mf ij
uwjxzrnw vzj yfs fqyf uwnshjxf xj mfgíf ij frfshjgfw hts zs xfhfutywfx; d
vznjs qt htsywfwnt jsyjsinjwj, rnjsyj htrt rzd lwfs gjqqfht. D dt xj qt
ifwé f jsyjsijw, f unj t f hfgfqqt, fwrfit t ijxfwrfit, ij sthmj t ij iíf,
t htrt ráx lzxyt qj injwj.

Jxyágfqj rnwfsit Hfwijsnt rzd fyjsyfrjsyj, fq hzfq df mfgíf ajsnit jq
fhhnijsyj ij xz qthzwf d st jxyfgf ufwf uwtxjlznw xz mnxytwnf; sn yfrutht
its Vznotyj xj qf tdjwf, xjlús qj mfgíf inxlzxyfit qt vzj ij Rfiáxnrf qj
mfgíf tíit. ¡Jxywfñt hfxt; vzj fxí atqanó utw jqqf htrt xn ajwifijwfrjsyj
kzjwf xz ajwifijwf d sfyzwfq xjñtwf: yfq qj yjsífs xzx ijxhtrzqlfitx
qngwtx! Inlt, uzjx, vzj, htrt df Hfwijsnt jxyfgf qtht d xj tdó ywfyfw ij
rjsyíx d ij gjqqfht, hts tywtx ijszjxytx xjrjofsyjx, ufwjhnóqj rfq qf
gzwqf, d fqeó zs lznofwwt vzj mfqqó ozsyt f xí, d int hts éq js qtx ujhmtx
yfq ltquj f its Vznotyj vzj qj mnet hfjw ij jxufqifx. Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj ij
yfq rtit ant ufwfw f xz xjñtw, fwwjrjynó fq qtht hts jq uzñt hjwwfit; d jq
Wtyt qj wjhngnó ij yfq xzjwyj vzj hts zsf uzñfif int hts éq f xzx unjx, d
qzjlt xj xzgnó xtgwj éq d qj gwzró qfx htxynqqfx rzd f xz xfgtw. Jq
hfgwjwt, vzj qj vznxt ijkjsijw, htwwnó jq rjxrt ujqnlwt. D, ijxuzéx vzj qtx
yzat f ytitx wjsinitx d rtqnitx, qtx ijoó d xj kzj, hts ljsynq xtxnjlt, f
jrgtxhfwxj js qf rtsyfñf.

Qjafsyóxj Xfshmt, d, hts qf wfgnf vzj yjsíf ij ajwxj futwwjfit yfs xns
rjwjhjwqt, fhzinó f ytrfw qf ajslfsef ijq hfgwjwt, inhnésitqj vzj éq yjsíf
qf hzquf ij st mfgjwqjx fanxfit vzj f fvzjq mtrgwj qj ytrfgf f ynjrutx qf
qthzwf; vzj, xn jxyt xzunjwfs, mzgnjwfs jxyfit xtgwj fanxt ufwf utijwxj
lzfwifw. Wjxutsinó jq hfgwjwt vzj df qt mfgíf inhmt, d vzj xn éq st qt
mfgíf tíit, vzj st jwf xzdf qf hzquf. Wjuqnhó Xfshmt Ufsef, d ytwsó f
wjuqnhfw jq hfgwjwt, d kzj jq kns ij qfx wéuqnhfx fxnwxj ij qfx gfwgfx d
ifwxj yfqjx uzñfifx vzj, xn its Vznotyj st qtx uzxnjwf js ufe, xj mnhnjwfs
ujifetx. Ijhíf Xfshmt, fxnit hts jq hfgwjwt:

-Iéojrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, vzj js éxyj,
vzj jx anqqfst htrt dt d st jxyá fwrfit hfgfqqjwt, gnjs uzjit f rn xfqat
xfynxkfhjwrj ijq flwfant vzj rj mf mjhmt, ujqjfsit hts éq rfst f rfst, htrt
mtrgwj mtswfit.

-Fxí jx -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt dt xé vzj éq st ynjsj snslzsf hzquf ij qt
xzhjinit.

Hts jxyt qtx fufhnlzó, d its Vznotyj atqanó f uwjlzsyfw fq hfgwjwt xn xjwíf
utxngqj mfqqfw f Hfwijsnt, utwvzj vzjifgf hts lwfsiíxnrt ijxjt ij xfgjw jq
kns ij xz mnxytwnf. Iíotqj jq hfgwjwt qt vzj uwnrjwt qj mfgíf inhmt, vzj
jwf st xfgjw ij hnjwyt xz rfsnif; ujwt vzj, xn fsizanjxj rzhmt utw fvzjqqtx
htsytwstx, st ijofwíf ij mfqqfwqj, t hzjwit t qtht.





Hfuíyzqt CCA. Vzj ywfyf ij qfx jxywfñfx htxfx vzj js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf
xzhjinjwts fq afqnjsyj hfgfqqjwt ij qf Rfshmf, d ij qf nrnyfhnós vzj mnet f
qf ujsnyjshnf ij Gjqyjsjgwtx


Ijxuninóxj ijq hfgwjwt its Vznotyj, d, xzgnjsit tywf aje xtgwj Wthnsfsyj,
rfsió f Xfshmt vzj qj xnlznjxj, jq hzfq qt mnet, hts xz ozrjsyt, ij rzd
rfqf lfsf. Ígfsxj utht f utht jsywfsit js qt ráx áxujwt ij qf rtsyfñf, d
Xfshmt ngf rzjwyt utw wfetsfw hts xz frt, d ijxjfgf vzj éq htrjsefxj qf
uqáynhf, utw st htsywfajsnw f qt vzj qj yjsíf rfsifit; rfx, st uzinjsit
xzkwnw yfsyt xnqjshnt, qj inot:

-Xjñtw its Vznotyj, azjxywf rjwhji rj jhmj xz gjsinhnós d rj ié qnhjshnf;
vzj ijxij fvzí rj vznjwt atqajw f rn hfxf, d f rn rzojw d f rnx mnotx, hts
qtx hzfqjx, utw qt rjstx, mfgqfwé d ijufwynwé ytit qt vzj vznxnjwj; utwvzj
vzjwjw azjxywf rjwhji vzj afdf hts éq utw jxyfx xtqjifijx, ij iíf d ij
sthmj, d vzj st qj mfgqj hzfsit rj injwj lzxyt jx jsyjwwfwrj js anif. Xn df
vznxnjwf qf xzjwyj vzj qtx fsnrfqjx mfgqfwfs, htrt mfgqfgfs js ynjrutx ij
Lznxtujyj, kzjwf rjstx rfq, utwvzj ijufwynjwf dt hts rn ozrjsyt qt vzj rj
ansnjwf js lfsf, d hts jxyt ufxfwf rn rfqf ajsyzwf; vzj jx wjhnf htxf, d
vzj st xj uzjij qqjafw js ufhnjshnf, fsifw gzxhfsit fajsyzwfx ytif qf anif
d st mfqqfw xnst hthjx d rfsyjfrnjsytx, qfiwnqqfetx d uzñfifx, d, hts ytit
jxyt, stx mjrtx ij htxjw qf gthf, xns txfw ijhnw qt vzj jq mtrgwj ynjsj js
xz htwfeós, htrt xn kzjwf rzit.

-Df yj jsynjsit, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: yú rzjwjx utwvzj yj fqhj
jq jsywjinhmt vzj yj yjslt uzjxyt js qf qjslzf. Ifqj utw fqefit d in qt vzj
vznxnjwjx, hts htsinhnós vzj st mf ij izwfw jxyj fqefrnjsyt ráx ij js
hzfsyt fsizanéwjrtx utw jxyfx xnjwwfx.

-Xjf fsxí -inot Xfshmt-: mfgqj dt fmtwf, vzj ijxuzéx Intx xfgj qt vzj xjwá;
d, htrjsefsit f ltefw ij jxj xfqathtsizyt, inlt vzj ¿vzé qj ngf f azjxywf
rjwhji js atqajw yfsyt utw fvzjqqf wjnsf Rflnrfxf, t htrt xj qqfrf? T, ¿vzé
mfhíf fq hfxt vzj fvzjq fgfi kzjxj xz frnlt t st? Vzj, xn azjxywf rjwhji
ufxfwf hts jqqt, uzjx st jwf xz ozje, gnjs hwjt dt vzj jq qtht ufxfwf
fijqfsyj hts xz mnxytwnf, d xj mzgnjwfs fmtwwfit jq ltquj ijq lznofwwt, d
qfx hthjx, d fzs ráx ij xjnx ytwsnxhtsjx.

-F kj, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj xn yú xzunjwfx, htrt dt qt xé,
hzás mtswfif d hzás uwnshnufq xjñtwf jwf qf wjnsf Rfiáxnrf, dt xé vzj
inojwfx vzj yzaj rzhmf ufhnjshnf, uzjx st vzjgwé qf gthf utw itsij yfqjx
gqfxkjrnfx xfqnjwts; utwvzj jx rzd lwfs gqfxkjrnf ijhnw sn ujsxfw vzj zsf
wjnsf jxyé frfshjgfif hts zs hnwzofst. Qf ajwifi ijq hzjsyt jx vzj fvzjq
rfjxywt Jqnxfgfy, vzj jq qtht inot, kzj zs mtrgwj rzd uwzijsyj d ij rzd
xfstx htsxjotx, d xnwanó ij fdt d ij réinht f qf wjnsf; ujwt ujsxfw vzj
jqqf jwf xz frnlf jx inxufwfyj inlst ij rzd lwfs hfxynlt. D, utwvzj ajfx
vzj Hfwijsnt st xzut qt vzj inot, mfx ij fiajwynw vzj hzfsit qt inot df
jxyfgf xns oznhnt.

-Jxt inlt dt -inot Xfshmt-: vzj st mfgíf ufwf vzé mfhjw hzjsyf ij qfx
ufqfgwfx ij zs qtht, utwvzj xn qf gzjsf xzjwyj st fdzifwf f azjxywf rjwhji
d jshfrnsfwf jq lznofwwt f qf hfgjef, htrt qj jshfrnsó fq ujhmt, gzjstx
vzjiáwfrtx utw mfgjw azjqyt utw fvzjqqf rn xjñtwf, vzj Intx htmtsif. Uzjx,
¡rtsyfx vzj st xj qngwfwf Hfwijsnt utw qtht!

-Htsywf hzjwitx d htsywf qthtx jxyá tgqnlfit hzfqvznjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj f
atqajw utw qf mtswf ij qfx rzojwjx, hzfqjxvznjwf vzj xjfs, hzfsyt ráx utw
qfx wjnsfx ij yfs fqyf lznxf d uwt htrt kzj qf wjnsf Rfiáxnrf, f vznjs dt
yjslt ufwynhzqfw fknhnós utw xzx gzjsfx ufwyjx; utwvzj, kzjwf ij mfgjw xnit
kjwrtxf, fijráx kzj rzd uwzijsyj d rzd xzkwnif js xzx hfqfrnifijx, vzj qfx
yzat rzhmfx; d qtx htsxjotx d htrufñíf ijq rfjxywt Jqnxfgfy qj kzj d qj
kzjwts ij rzhmt uwtajhmt d fqnant ufwf utijw qqjafw xzx ywfgfotx hts
uwzijshnf d ufhnjshnf. D ij fvzí ytró thfxnós jq azqlt nlstwfsyj d rfq
nsyjshntsfit ij ijhnw d ujsxfw vzj jqqf jwf xz rfshjgf; d rnjsyjs, inlt
tywf aje, d rjsynwás tywfx ithnjsyfx, ytitx qtx vzj yfq ujsxfwjs d inojwjs.
-Sn dt qt inlt sn qt unjsxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: fqqá xj qt mfdfs; hts xz
ufs xj qt htrfs. Xn kzjwts frfshjgfitx, t st, f Intx mfgwás ifit qf hzjsyf.
Ij rnx anñfx ajslt, st xé sfif; st xtd frnlt ij xfgjw anifx fojsfx; vzj jq
vzj htruwf d rnjsyj, js xz gtqxf qt xnjsyj. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj ijxszit sfhí,
ijxszit rj mfqqt: sn unjwit sn lfst; rfx vzj qt kzjxjs, ¿vzé rj af f rí? D
rzhmtx unjsxfs vzj mfd ythnstx d st mfd jxyfhfx. Rfx, ¿vznés uzjij utsjw
uzjwyfx fq hfrut? Hzfsyt ráx, vzj ij Intx inojwts.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx -inot its Vznotyj-, d vzé ij sjhjifijx afx, Xfshmt,
jsxfwyfsit! ¿Vzé af ij qt vzj ywfyfrtx f qtx wjkwfsjx vzj jsmnqfx? Utw yz
anif, Xfshmt, vzj hfqqjx; d ij fvzí fijqfsyj, jsywjréyjyj js jxutqjfw f yz
fxst, d ijof ij mfhjqqt js qt vzj st yj nrutwyf. D jsynjsij hts ytitx yzx
hnsht xjsynitx vzj ytit hzfsyt dt mj mjhmt, mflt j mnhnjwj, af rzd uzjxyt
js wfeós d rzd htsktwrj f qfx wjlqfx ij hfgfqqjwíf, vzj qfx xé rjotw vzj
hzfsytx hfgfqqjwtx qfx uwtkjxfwts js jq rzsit.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d ¿jx gzjsf wjlqf ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj fsijrtx
ujwinitx utw jxyfx rtsyfñfx, xns xjsif sn hfrnst, gzxhfsit f zs qtht, jq
hzfq, ijxuzéx ij mfqqfit, vzneá qj ajsiwá js atqzsyfi ij fhfgfw qt vzj ijoó
htrjsefit, st ij xz hzjsyt, xnst ij qf hfgjef ij azjxywf rjwhji d ij rnx
htxynqqfx, fhfgásitstxqfx ij wtrujw ij ytit uzsyt?

-Hfqqf, yj inlt tywf aje, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-; utwvzj yj mflt xfgjw
vzj st xóqt rj ywfj utw jxyfx ufwyjx jq ijxjt ij mfqqfw fq qtht, hzfsyt jq
vzj yjslt ij mfhjw js jqqfx zsf mfefñf hts vzj mj ij lfsfw ujwujyzt strgwj
d kfrf js ytit qt ijxhzgnjwyt ij qf ynjwwf; d xjwá yfq, vzj mj ij jhmfw hts
jqqf jq xjqqt f ytit fvzjqqt vzj uzjij mfhjw ujwkjhyt d kfrtxt f zs fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwt.

-D ¿jx ij rzd lwfs ujqnlwt jxf mfefñf? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt Ufsef.

-St -wjxutsinó jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf-, uzjxyt vzj ij yfq rfsjwf utiíf
htwwjw jq ifit, vzj jhmáxjrtx fefw js qzlfw ij jshzjsywt; ujwt ytit mf ij
jxyfw js yz inqnljshnf.

-¿Js rn inqnljshnf? -inot Xfshmt.

-Xí -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj xn azjqajx uwjxyt ij fitsij unjsxt jsanfwyj,
uwjxyt xj fhfgfwá rn ujsf d uwjxyt htrjsefwá rn lqtwnf. D, utwvzj st jx
gnjs vzj yj yjslf ráx xzxujsxt, jxujwfsit js qt vzj mfs ij ufwfw rnx
wfetsjx, vznjwt, Xfshmt, vzj xjufx vzj jq kfrtxt Frfiíx ij Lfzqf kzj zst ij
qtx ráx ujwkjhytx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx. St mj inhmt gnjs kzj zst: kzj jq
xtqt, jq uwnrjwt, jq úsnht, jq xjñtw ij ytitx hzfsytx mzgt js xz ynjrut js
jq rzsit. Rfq fñt d rfq rjx ufwf its Gjqnfsíx d ufwf ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj
inojwjs vzj xj qj nlzfqó js fqlt, utwvzj xj jslfñfs, ozwt hnjwyt. Inlt
fxnrnxrt vzj, hzfsit fqlús unsytw vznjwj xfqnw kfrtxt js xz fwyj, uwthzwf
nrnyfw qtx twnlnsfqjx ij qtx ráx úsnhtx unsytwjx vzj xfgj; d jxyf rjxrf
wjlqf htwwj utw ytitx qtx ráx tknhntx t jojwhnhntx ij hzjsyf vzj xnwajs
ufwf fitwst ij qfx wjuúgqnhfx. D fxí qt mf ij mfhjw d mfhj jq vzj vznjwj
fqhfsefw strgwj ij uwzijsyj d xzkwnit, nrnyfsit f Zqnxjx, js hzdf ujwxtsf d
ywfgfotx stx unsyf Mtrjwt zs wjywfyt anat ij uwzijshnf d ij xzkwnrnjsyt;
htrt yfrgnés stx rtxywó Anwlnqnt, js ujwxtsf ij Jsjfx, jq afqtw ij zs mnot
unfitxt d qf xflfhnifi ij zs afqnjsyj d jsyjsinit hfunyás, st unsyásitqt sn
ijxhzgwnésitqt htrt jqqtx kzjwts, xnst htrt mfgífs ij xjw, ufwf vzjifw
jojruqt f qtx ajsnijwtx mtrgwjx ij xzx anwyzijx. Ijxyf rjxrf xzjwyj, Frfiíx
kzj jq stwyj, jq qzhjwt, jq xtq ij qtx afqnjsyjx d jsfrtwfitx hfgfqqjwtx, f
vznjs ijgjrtx ij nrnyfw ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj ijgfot ij qf gfsijwf ij frtw d
ij qf hfgfqqjwíf rnqnyfrtx. Xnjsit, uzjx, jxyt fsxí, htrt qt jx, mfqqt dt,
Xfshmt frnlt, vzj jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj vzj ráx qj nrnyfwj jxyfwá ráx hjwhf
ij fqhfsefw qf ujwkjhnós ij qf hfgfqqjwíf. D zsf ij qfx htxfx js vzj ráx
jxyj hfgfqqjwt rtxywó xz uwzijshnf, afqtw, afqjsyíf, xzkwnrnjsyt, knwrjef d
frtw, kzj hzfsit xj wjynwó, ijxijñfit ij qf xjñtwf Twnfsf, f mfhjw
ujsnyjshnf js qf Ujñf Utgwj, rzifit xz strgwj js jq ij Gjqyjsjgwtx, strgwj,
utw hnjwyt, xnlsnknhfynat d uwtuwnt ufwf qf anif vzj éq ij xz atqzsyfi
mfgíf jxhtlnit. Fsxí vzj, rj jx f rí ráx káhnq nrnyfwqj js jxyt vzj st js
mjsijw lnlfsyjx, ijxhfgjefw xjwunjsyjx, rfyfw jsiwnfltx, ijxgfwfyfw
joéwhnytx, kwfhfxfw fwrfifx d ijxmfhjw jshfsyfrjsytx. D, uzjx jxytx qzlfwjx
xts yfs fhtrtifitx ufwf xjrjofsyjx jkjhytx, st mfd ufwf vzé xj ijoj ufxfw
qf thfxnós, vzj fmtwf hts yfsyf htrtinifi rj tkwjhj xzx lzjijofx.

-Js jkjhyt -inot Xfshmt-, ¿vzé jx qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj mfhjw js
jxyj yfs wjrtyt qzlfw?

-¿Df st yj mj inhmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj vznjwt nrnyfw f Frfiíx,
mfhnjsit fvzí ijq ijxjxujwfit, ijq xfsint d ijq kzwntxt, utw nrnyfw
ozsyfrjsyj fq afqnjsyj its Wtqiás, hzfsit mfqqó js zsf kzjsyj qfx xjñfqjx
ij vzj Fsléqnhf qf Gjqqf mfgíf htrjynit anqjef hts Rjitwt, ij hzdf
ujxfizrgwj xj atqanó qtht d fwwfshó qtx áwgtqjx, jsyzwgnó qfx flzfx ij qfx
hqfwfx kzjsyjx, rfyó ufxytwjx, ijxywzdó lfsfitx, fgwfxó hmtefx, ijwwngó
hfxfx, fwwfxywó djlzfx d mnet tywfx hnjs rnq nsxtqjshnfx, inlsfx ij jyjwst
strgwj d jxhwnyzwf? D, uzjxyt vzj dt st unjsxt nrnyfw f Wtqiás, t Twqfsit,
t Wtytqfsit (vzj ytitx jxytx ywjx strgwjx yjsíf), ufwyj utw ufwyj js ytifx
qfx qthzwfx vzj mnet, inot d ujsxó, mfwé jq gtxvzjot, htrt rjotw uzinjwj,
js qfx vzj rj ufwjhnjwj xjw ráx jxjshnfqjx. D utiwá xjw vzj ansnjxj f
htsyjsyfwrj hts xtqf qf nrnyfhnós ij Frfiíx, vzj xns mfhjw qthzwfx ij ifñt,
xnst ij qqtwtx d xjsynrnjsytx, fqhfseó yfsyf kfrf htrt jq vzj ráx.
-Ufwéhjrj f rí -inot Xfshmt- vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj qt yfq knhnjwts kzjwts
uwtathfitx d yzanjwts hfzxf ufwf mfhjw jxfx sjhjifijx d ujsnyjshnfx, ujwt
azjxywf rjwhji, ¿vzé hfzxf ynjsj ufwf atqajwxj qtht? ¿Vzé ifrf qj mf
ijxijñfit, t vzé xjñfqjx mf mfqqfit vzj qj ijs f jsyjsijw vzj qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt mf mjhmt fqlzsf snñjwíf hts rtwt t hwnxynfst?

-Fmí jxyf jq uzsyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- d éxf jx qf knsjef ij rn
sjlthnt; vzj atqajwxj qtht zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj hts hfzxf, sn lwfit sn
lwfhnfx: jq ytvzj jxyá ijxfynsfw xns thfxnós d ifw f jsyjsijw f rn ifrf vzj
xn js xjht mflt jxyt, ¿vzé mnhnjwf js rtofit? Hzfsyt ráx, vzj mfwyf thfxnós
yjslt js qf qfwlf fzxjshnf vzj mj mjhmt ij qf xnjruwj xjñtwf ríf Izqhnsjf
ijq Ytgtxt; vzj, htrt df tíxyj ijhnw f fvzjq ufxytw ij rfwwfx, Frgwtxnt:
vznjs jxyá fzxjsyj ytitx qtx rfqjx ynjsj d yjrj. Fxí vzj, Xfshmt frnlt, st
lfxyjx ynjrut js fhtsxjofwrj vzj ijoj yfs wfwf, yfs kjqnhj d yfs st anxyf
nrnyfhnós. Qtht xtd, qtht mj ij xjw mfxyf yfsyt vzj yú azjqafx hts qf
wjxuzjxyf ij zsf hfwyf vzj htsynlt unjsxt jsanfw f rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf; d xn
kzjwj yfq hzfq f rn kj xj qj ijgj, fhfgfwxj mf rn xfsije d rn ujsnyjshnf; d
xn kzjwj fq htsywfwnt, xjwé qtht ij ajwfx, d, xnésitqt, st xjsynwé sfif.
Fsxí vzj, ij hzfqvznjwf rfsjwf vzj wjxutsif, xfqiwé ijq htskqnyt d ywfgfot
js vzj rj ijofwjx, ltefsit jq gnjs vzj rj ywzojwjx, utw hzjwit, t st
xnsynjsit jq rfq vzj rj futwyfwjx, utw qtht. Ujwt inrj, Xfshmt, ¿ywfjx gnjs
lzfwifit jq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst?; vzj df an vzj qj fqefxyj ijq xzjqt hzfsit
fvzjq ijxflwfijhnit qj vznxt mfhjw ujifetx. Ujwt st uzit, itsij xj uzjij
jhmfw ij ajw qf knsjef ij xz yjruqj.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Anaj Intx, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, vzj st uzjit xzkwnw sn
qqjafw js ufhnjshnf fqlzsfx htxfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj, d vzj utw jqqfx
ajslt f nrflnsfw vzj ytit hzfsyt rj inhj ij hfgfqqjwífx d ij fqhfsefw
wjnstx j nrujwntx, ij ifw ísxzqfx d ij mfhjw tywfx rjwhjijx d lwfsijefx,
htrt jx zxt ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, vzj ytit ijgj ij xjw htxf ij anjsyt d
rjsynwf, d ytit ufxywfñf, t ufywfñf, t htrt qt qqfráwjrtx. Utwvzj vznjs
tdjwj ijhnw f azjxywf rjwhji vzj zsf gfhíf ij gfwgjwt jx jq djqrt ij
Rfrgwnst, d vzj st xfqlf ij jxyj jwwtw js ráx ij hzfywt iífx, ¿vzé mf ij
ujsxfw, xnst vzj vznjs yfq inhj d fknwrf ijgj ij yjsjw lüjwt jq oznhnt? Qf
gfhíf dt qf qqjat js jq htxyfq, ytif fgtqqfif, d qqéatqf ufwf fijwjefwqf js
rn hfxf d mfhjwrj qf gfwgf js jqqf, xn Intx rj injwj yfsyf lwfhnf vzj fqlús
iíf rj ajf hts rn rzojw d mnotx.

-Rnwf, Xfshmt, utw jq rnxrt vzj ijsfsyjx ozwfxyj, yj ozwt -inot its
Vznotyj- vzj ynjsjx jq ráx htwyt jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj ynjsj sn yzat jxhzijwt
js jq rzsit. ¿Vzj jx utxngqj vzj js hzfsyt mf vzj fsifx htsrnlt st mfx
jhmfit ij ajw vzj ytifx qfx htxfx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ufwjhjs
vznrjwfx, sjhjifijx d ijxfynstx, d vzj xts ytifx mjhmfx fq wjaéx? D st
utwvzj xjf jqqt fsxí, xnst utwvzj fsifs jsywj stxtywtx xnjruwj zsf hfyjwaf
ij jshfsyfitwjx vzj ytifx szjxywfx htxfx rzifs d ywzjhfs d qjx azjqajs
xjlús xz lzxyt, d xjlús ynjsjs qf lfsf ij kfatwjhjwstx t ijxywznwstx; d
fxí, jxt vzj f yn yj ufwjhj gfhíf ij gfwgjwt, rj ufwjhj f rí jq djqrt ij
Rfrgwnst, d f tywt qj ufwjhjwá tywf htxf. D kzj wfwf uwtanijshnf ijq xfgnt
vzj jx ij rn ufwyj mfhjw vzj ufwjehf gfhíf f ytitx qt vzj wjfq d
ajwifijwfrjsyj jx djqrt ij Rfrgwnst, f hfzxf vzj, xnjsit éq ij yfsyf
jxynrf, ytit jq rzsit rj ujwxjlznwá utw vznyáwrjqj; ujwt, htrt ajs vzj st
jx ráx ij zs gfhís ij gfwgjwt, st xj hzwfs ij uwthzwfqqj, htrt xj rtxywó
gnjs js jq vzj vznxt wtrujqqj d qj ijoó js jq xzjqt xns qqjafwqj; vzj f kj
vzj xn qj htsthnjwf, vzj szshf éq qj ijofwf. Lzáwifqj, frnlt, vzj utw fmtwf
st qj mj rjsjxyjw; vzj fsyjx rj yjslt ij vznyfw ytifx jxyfx fwrfx d vzjifw
ijxszit htrt hzfsit sfhí, xn jx vzj rj if js atqzsyfi ij xjlznw js rn
ujsnyjshnf ráx f Wtqiás vzj f Frfiíx.

Qqjlfwts, js jxyfx uqáynhfx, fq unj ij zsf fqyf rtsyfñf vzj, hfxn htrt
ujñós yfofit, jxyfgf xtqf jsywj tywfx rzhmfx vzj qf wtijfgfs. Htwwíf utw xz
kfqif zs rfsxt fwwtdzjqt, d mfhífxj utw ytif xz wjitsije zs uwfit yfs ajwij
d anhntxt, vzj ifgf htsyjsyt f qtx totx vzj qj rnwfgfs. Mfgíf utw fqqí
rzhmtx áwgtqjx xnqajxywjx d fqlzsfx uqfsyfx d kqtwjx, vzj mfhífs jq qzlfw
fufhngqj. Jxyj xnynt jxhtlnó jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf ufwf mfhjw xz
ujsnyjshnf; d fxí, js anésitqj, htrjseó f ijhnw js ate fqyf, htrt xn
jxyzanjwf xns oznhnt:

-Éxyj jx jq qzlfw, ¡tm hnjqtx!, vzj inuzyt d jxhtot ufwf qqtwfw qf
ijxajsyzwf js vzj atxtywtx rjxrtx rj mfgénx uzjxyt. Éxyj jx jq xnynt itsij
jq mzrtw ij rnx totx fhwjhjsyfwá qfx flzfx ijxyj ujvzjñt fwwtdt, d rnx
htsynstx d uwtkzsitx xtxunwtx rtajwás f qf htsynsf qfx mtofx ijxytx
rtsyfwfhjx áwgtqjx, js yjxynrtsnt d xjñfq ij qf ujsf vzj rn fxjsijwjfit
htwfeós ufijhj. ¡Tm atxtywtx, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjánx, wúxynhtx intxjx vzj js
jxyj nsmfgnyfgqj qzlfw yjsénx azjxywf rtwfif, tíi qfx vzjofx ijxyj
ijxinhmfit frfsyj, f vznjs zsf qzjslf fzxjshnf d zstx nrflnsfitx hjqtx mfs
ywfíit f qfrjsyfwxj jsywj jxyfx fxujwjefx, d f vzjofwxj ij qf izwf
htsinhnós ij fvzjqqf nslwfyf d gjqqf, yéwrnst d kns ij ytif mzrfsf
mjwrtxzwf! ¡Tm atxtywfx, sfujfx d iwífifx, vzj yjsénx utw htxyzrgwj ij
mfgnyfw js qfx jxujxzwfx ij qtx rtsyjx, fxí qtx qnljwtx d qfxhnatx xáynwtx,
ij vznjs xtnx, fzsvzj js afst, frfifx, st ujwyzwgjs ofráx azjxywt izqhj
xtxnjlt, vzj rj fdziénx f qfrjsyfw rn ijxajsyzwf, t, f qt rjstx, st tx
hfsxénx ij tíqqf! ¡Tm Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, iíf ij rn sthmj, lqtwnf ij rn
ujsf, stwyj ij rnx hfrnstx, jxywjqqf ij rn ajsyzwf, fxí jq hnjqt yj qf ié
gzjsf js hzfsyt fhjwyfwjx f ujinwqj, vzj htsxnijwjx jq qzlfw d jq jxyfit f
vzj yz fzxjshnf rj mf htsizhnit, d vzj hts gzjs yéwrnst htwwjxutsifx fq vzj
f rn kj xj qj ijgj! ¡Tm xtqnyfwntx áwgtqjx, vzj ijxij mtd js fijqfsyj
mfgénx ij mfhjw htrufñíf f rn xtqjifi, ifi nsinhnt, hts jq gqfsit
rtanrnjsyt ij azjxywfx wfrfx, vzj st tx ijxflwfij rn uwjxjshnf! ¡Tm yú,
jxhzijwt rít, flwfifgqj htrufñjwt js ráx uwóxujwtx d fiajwxtx xzhjxtx, ytrf
gnjs js qf rjrtwnf qt vzj fvzí rj ajwáx mfhjw, ufwf vzj qt hzjsyjx d
wjhjyjx f qf hfzxf ytyfq ij ytit jqqt!

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj fujó ij Wthnsfsyj, d js zs rtrjsyt qj vznyó jq kwjst d
qf xnqqf; d, iásitqj zsf ufqrfif js qfx fshfx, qj inot:

-Qngjwyfi yj if jq vzj xns jqqf vzjif, ¡tm hfgfqqt yfs jxywjrfit utw yzx
tgwfx hzfs ijxinhmfit utw yz xzjwyj! Ajyj utw it vznxnjwjx, vzj js qf
kwjsyj qqjafx jxhwnyt vzj st yj nlzfqó js qnljwjef jq Mnutlwnkt ij Fxytqkt,
sn jq strgwfit Kwtsynst, vzj yfs hfwt qj htxyó f Gwfifrfsyj.

Anjsit jxyt Xfshmt, inot:

-Gnjs mfdf vznjs stx vznyó fmtwf ijq ywfgfot ij ijxjsfqgfwifw fq wzhnt; vzj
f kj vzj st kfqyfwfs ufqrfinhfx vzj ifqqj, sn htxfx vzj ijhnqqj js xz
fqfgfsef; ujwt xn éq fvzí jxyzanjwf, st htsxnsynjwf dt vzj sfinj qj
ijxfqgfwifwf, uzjx st mfgíf ufwf vzé, vzj f éq st qj ythfgfs qfx ljsjwfqjx
ij jsfrtwfit sn ij ijxjxujwfit, uzjx st qt jxyfgf xz frt, vzj jwf dt,
hzfsit Intx vzjwíf. D js ajwifi, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, vzj
xn jx vzj rn ufwynif d xz qthzwf ij azjxywf rjwhji af ij ajwfx, vzj xjwá
gnjs ytwsfw f jsxnqqfw f Wthnsfsyj, ufwf vzj xzuqf qf kfqyf ijq wzhnt,
utwvzj xjwá fmtwwfw ynjrut f rn nif d azjqyf; vzj xn qf mflt f unj, st xé
hzásit qqjlfwé sn hzásit atqajwé, utwvzj, js wjxtqzhnós, xtd rfq hfrnsfsyj.
-Inlt, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj xjf htrt yú vznxnjwjx, vzj st rj
ufwjhj rfq yz ijxnlsnt; d inlt vzj ij fvzí f ywjx iífx yj ufwynwáx, utwvzj
vznjwt vzj js jxyj ynjrut ajfx qt vzj utw jqqf mflt d inlt, ufwf vzj xj qt
inlfx.

-Uzjx, ¿vzé ráx yjslt ij ajw -inot Xfshmt- vzj qt vzj mj anxyt?

-¡Gnjs jxyáx js jq hzjsyt! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Fmtwf rj kfqyf wfxlfw
qfx ajxynizwfx, jxufwhnw qfx fwrfx d ifwrj ij hfqfgfefifx utw jxyfx ujñfx,
hts tywfx htxfx ijxyj ofje vzj yj mfs ij firnwfw.

-Utw frtw ij Intx -inot Xfshmt-, vzj rnwj azjxywf rjwhji hórt xj if jxfx
hfqfgfefifx; vzj f yfq ujñf utiwá qqjlfw, d js yfq uzsyt, vzj hts qf
uwnrjwf xj fhfgfxj qf rávznsf ijxyf ujsnyjshnf; d xjwíf dt ij ufwjhjw vzj,
df vzj azjxywf rjwhji qj ufwjhj vzj xts fvzí sjhjxfwnfx hfqfgfefifx d vzj
st xj uzjij mfhjw jxyf tgwf xns jqqfx, xj htsyjsyfxj, uzjx ytit jxyt jx
knslnit d htxf htsywfmjhmf d ij gzwqf, xj htsyjsyfxj, inlt, hts iáwxjqfx js
jq flzf, t js fqlzsf htxf gqfsif, htrt fqltiós; d iéojrj f rí jq hfwlt, vzj
dt inwé f rn xjñtwf vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj qfx ifgf js zsf uzsyf ij ujñf ráx
izwf vzj qf ij zs infrfsyj.

-Dt flwfijeht yz gzjsf nsyjshnós, frnlt Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, rfx
vznéwtyj mfhjw xfgnitw ij vzj ytifx jxyfx htxfx vzj mflt st xts ij gzwqfx,
xnst rzd ij ajwfx; utwvzj ij tywf rfsjwf, xjwíf htsywfajsnw f qfx ówijsjx
ij hfgfqqjwíf, vzj stx rfsifs vzj st inlfrtx rjsynwf fqlzsf, ujsf ij
wjqfxtx, d jq mfhjw zsf htxf utw tywf qt rjxrt jx vzj rjsynw. Fsxí vzj, rnx
hfqfgfefifx mfs ij xjw ajwifijwfx, knwrjx d afqjijwfx, xns vzj qqjajs sfif
ijq xtkíxynht sn ijq kfsyáxynht. D xjwá sjhjxfwnt vzj rj ijojx fqlzsfx
mnqfx ufwf hzwfwrj, uzjx vzj qf ajsyzwf vznxt vzj stx kfqyfxj jq gáqxfrt
vzj ujwinrtx.

-Ráx kzj ujwijw jq fxst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, uzjx xj ujwinjwts js éq qfx
mnqfx d ytit. D wzéltqj f azjxywf rjwhji vzj st xj fhzjwij ráx ij fvzjq
rfqinyt gwjgfoj; vzj js xóqt tíwqj rjsyfw xj rj wjazjqaj jq fqrf, st vzj jq
jxyórflt. D ráx qj wzjlt: vzj mflf hzjsyf vzj xts df ufxfitx qtx ywjx iífx
vzj rj mf ifit ij yéwrnst ufwf ajw qfx qthzwfx vzj mfhj, vzj df qfx itd utw
anxyfx d utw ufxfifx js htxf ozelfif, d inwé rfwfanqqfx f rn xjñtwf; d
jxhwngf qf hfwyf d ijxuáhmjrj qzjlt, utwvzj yjslt lwfs ijxjt ij atqajw f
xfhfw f azjxywf rjwhji ijxyj uzwlfytwnt itsij qj ijot.

-¿Uzwlfytwnt qj qqfrfx, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj-. Rjotw mnhnjwfx ij
qqfrfwqj nsknjwst, d fzs ujtw, xn mfd tywf htxf vzj qt xjf.

-Vznjs mf nsknjwst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, szqf jx wjyjshnt, xjlús mj tíit
ijhnw.

-St jsynjsit vzé vznjwj ijhnw wjyjshnt -inot its Vznotyj.

-Wjyjshnt jx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj vznjs jxyá js jq nsknjwst szshf xfqj
iéq, sn uzjij. Qt hzfq xjwá fq wjaéx js azjxywf rjwhji, t f rí rj fsifwás
rfq qtx unjx, xn jx vzj qqjat jxuzjqfx ufwf fanafw f Wthnsfsyj; d uóslfrj
dt zsf utw zsf js jq Ytgtxt, d ijqfsyj ij rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, vzj dt qj
inwé yfqjx htxfx ij qfx sjhjifijx d qthzwfx, vzj ytit jx zst, vzj azjxywf
rjwhji mf mjhmt d vzjif mfhnjsit, vzj qf ajslf f utsjw ráx gqfsif vzj zs
lzfsyj, fzsvzj qf mfqqj ráx izwf vzj zs fqhtwstvzj; hts hzdf wjxuzjxyf
izqhj d rjqnknhfif atqajwé utw qtx fnwjx, htrt gwzot, d xfhfwé f azjxywf
rjwhji ijxyj uzwlfytwnt, vzj ufwjhj nsknjwst d st qt jx, uzjx mfd jxujwfsef
ij xfqnw iéq, qf hzfq, htrt yjslt inhmt, st qf ynjsjs ij xfqnw qtx vzj
jxyás js jq nsknjwst, sn hwjt vzj azjxywf rjwhji inwá tywf htxf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf-; ujwt, ¿vzé mfwjrtx ufwf
jxhwngnw qf hfwyf?

-D qf qngwfsef utqqnsjxhf yfrgnés -fñfinó Xfshmt.

-Ytit nwá nsxjwyt -inot its Vznotyj-; d xjwíf gzjst, df vzj st mfd ufujq,
vzj qf jxhwngnéxjrtx, htrt mfhífs qtx fsynlztx, js mtofx ij áwgtqjx, t js
zsfx yfgqnyfx ij hjwf; fzsvzj yfs inknhzqytxt xjwá mfqqfwxj jxt fmtwf htrt
jq ufujq. Rfx df rj mf ajsnit f qf rjrtwnf iósij xjwá gnjs, d fzs ráx vzj
gnjs, jxhwngnqqf: vzj jx js jq qngwnqqt ij rjrtwnf vzj kzj ij Hfwijsnt; d
yú yjsiwáx hznifit ij mfhjwqf ywfxqfifw js ufujq, ij gzjsf qjywf, js jq
uwnrjw qzlfw vzj mfqqfwjx, itsij mfdf rfjxywt ij jxhzjqf ij rzhmfhmtx, t xn
st, hzfqvznjwf xfhwnxyás yj qf ywfxqfifwá; d st xj qf ijx f ywfxqfifw f
snslús jxhwngfst, vzj mfhjs qjywf uwthjxfif, vzj st qf jsyjsijwá Xfyfsáx.
-Uzjx, ¿vzé xj mf ij mfhjw ij qf knwrf? -inot Xfshmt.

-Szshf qfx hfwyfx ij Frfiíx xj knwrfs -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-Jxyá gnjs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt qf qngwfsef ktwetxfrjsyj xj mf ij
knwrfw, d éxf, xn xj ywfxqfif, inwás vzj qf knwrf jx kfqxf d vzjifwérj xns
utqqnstx.

-Qf qngwfsef nwá js jq rjxrt qngwnqqt knwrfif; vzj, js anésitqf, rn xtgwnsf
st utsiwá inknhzqyfi js hzruqnqqf. D, js qt vzj ythf f qf hfwyf ij frtwjx,
utsiwáx utw knwrf: "Azjxywt mfxyf qf rzjwyj, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj
Knlzwf". D mfwá utht fq hfxt vzj afdf ij rfst fojsf, utwvzj, f qt vzj dt rj
xé fhtwifw, Izqhnsjf st xfgj jxhwngnw sn qjjw, d js ytif xz anif mf anxyt
qjywf ríf sn hfwyf ríf, utwvzj rnx frtwjx d qtx xzdtx mfs xnit xnjruwj
uqfyósnhtx, xns jxyjsijwxj f ráx vzj f zs mtsjxyt rnwfw. D fzs jxyt yfs ij
hzfsit js hzfsit, vzj txfwé ozwfw hts ajwifi vzj js ithj fñtx vzj mf vzj qf
vznjwt ráx vzj f qf qzrgwj ijxytx totx vzj mfs ij htrjw qf ynjwwf, st qf mj
anxyt hzfywt ajhjx; d fzs utiwá xjw vzj ijxyfx hzfywt ajhjx st mzgnjxj jqqf
jhmfit ij ajw qf zsf vzj qf rnwfgf: yfq jx jq wjhfyt d jshjwwfrnjsyt hts
vzj xzx ufiwjx, Qtwjset Htwhmzjqt, d xz rfiwj, Fqitsef Stlfqjx, qf mfs
hwnfit.

-¡Yf, yf! -inot Xfshmt-. ¿Vzj qf mnof ij Qtwjset Htwhmzjqt jx qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, qqfrfif utw tywt strgwj Fqitsef Qtwjset?

-Éxf jx -inot its Vznotyj-, d jx qf vzj rjwjhj xjw xjñtwf ij ytit jq
zsnajwxt.

-Gnjs qf htsteht -inot Xfshmt-, d xé ijhnw vzj ynwf yfs gnjs zsf gfwwf htrt
jq ráx ktwezit eflfq ij ytit jq uzjgqt. ¡Anaj jq Ifitw, vzj jx rtef ij
hmfuf, mjhmf d ijwjhmf d ij ujqt js ujhmt, d vzj uzjij xfhfw qf gfwgf ijq
qtit f hzfqvznjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, t utw fsifw, vzj qf yzanjwj utw xjñtwf!
¡Tm mnijuzyf, vzé wjot vzj ynjsj, d vzé ate! Xé ijhnw vzj xj uzxt zs iíf
jshnrf ijq hfrufsfwnt ijq fqijf f qqfrfw zstx eflfqjx xzdtx vzj fsifgfs js
zs gfwgjhmt ij xz ufiwj, d, fzsvzj jxyfgfs ij fqqí ráx ij rjinf qjlzf, fxí
qf tdjwts htrt xn jxyzanjwfs fq unj ij qf ytwwj. D qt rjotw vzj ynjsj jx
vzj st jx sfif rjqnsiwtxf, utwvzj ynjsj rzhmt ij htwyjxfsf: hts ytitx xj
gzwqf d ij ytit mfhj rzjhf d itsfnwj. Fmtwf inlt, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf
Ywnxyj Knlzwf, vzj st xtqfrjsyj uzjij d ijgj azjxywf rjwhji mfhjw qthzwfx
utw jqqf, xnst vzj, hts ozxyt yíyzqt, uzjij ijxjxujwfwxj d fmtwhfwxj; vzj
sfinj mfgwá vzj qt xjuf vzj st inlf vzj mnet ijrfxnfit ij gnjs, uzjxyt vzj
qj qqjaj jq infgqt. D vzjwwíf df ajwrj js hfrnst, xóqt utw ajqqf; vzj mf
rzhmtx iífx vzj st qf ajt, d ijgj ij jxyfw df ywthfif, utwvzj lfxyf rzhmt
qf kfe ij qfx rzojwjx fsifw xnjruwj fq hfrut, fq xtq d fq fnwj. D htsknjxt
f azjxywf rjwhji zsf ajwifi, xjñtw its Vznotyj: vzj mfxyf fvzí mj jxyfit js
zsf lwfsij nlstwfshnf; vzj ujsxfgf gnjs d knjqrjsyj vzj qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf
ijgíf ij xjw fqlzsf uwnshjxf ij vznjs azjxywf rjwhji jxyfgf jsfrtwfit, t
fqlzsf ujwxtsf yfq, vzj rjwjhnjxj qtx wnhtx uwjxjsyjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji qj
mf jsanfit: fxí jq ijq anehfíst htrt jq ij qtx lfqjtyjx, d tywtx rzhmtx vzj
ijgjs xjw, xjlús ijgjs ij xjw rzhmfx qfx anytwnfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf
lfsfit d lfsó js jq ynjrut vzj dt fús st jwf xz jxhzijwt. Ujwt, gnjs
htsxnijwfit, ¿vzé xj qj mf ij ifw f qf xjñtwf Fqitsef Qtwjset, inlt, f qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, ij vzj xj qj afdfs f mnshfw ij wtinqqfx ijqfsyj
ijqqf qtx ajshnitx vzj azjxywf rjwhji qj jsaíf d mf ij jsanfw? Utwvzj
utiwíf xjw vzj, fq ynjrut vzj jqqtx qqjlfxjs, jxyzanjxj jqqf wfxywnqqfsit
qnst, t ywnqqfsit js qfx jwfx, d jqqtx xj htwwnjxjs ij ajwqf, d jqqf xj
wnjxj d jskfifxj ijq uwjxjsyj.

-Df yj yjslt inhmt fsyjx ij fltwf rzhmfx ajhjx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-,
vzj jwjx rzd lwfsij mfgqfitw, d vzj, fzsvzj ij nsljsnt gtyt, rzhmfx ajhjx
ijxuzsyfx ij flzit. Rfx, ufwf vzj ajfx hzás sjhnt jwjx yú d hzás inxhwjyt
xtd dt, vznjwt vzj rj tdfx zs gwjaj hzjsyt. «Mfx ij xfgjw vzj zsf anzif
mjwrtxf, rtef, qngwj d wnhf, d, xtgwj ytit, ijxjskfifif, xj jsfrtwó ij zs
rtet rtynqós, wtqqnet d ij gzjs ytrt. Fqhfseóqt f xfgjw xz rfdtw, d zs iíf
inot f qf gzjsf anzif, utw aíf ij kwfyjwsfq wjuwjmjsxnós: ''Rfwfanqqfit
jxytd, xjñtwf, d st xns rzhmf hfzxf, ij vzj zsf rzojw yfs uwnshnufq, yfs
mjwrtxf d yfs wnhf htrt azjxywf rjwhji, xj mfdf jsfrtwfit ij zs mtrgwj yfs
xtje, yfs gfot d yfs nintyf htrt kzqfst, mfgnjsit js jxyf hfxf yfsytx
rfjxywtx, yfsytx uwjxjsyfitx d yfsytx yjóqtltx, js vznjs azjxywf rjwhji
uzinjwf jxhtljw htrt jsywj ujwfx, d ijhnw: "Éxyj vznjwt, fvzéxyj st
vznjwt"''. Rfx jqqf qj wjxutsinó, hts rzhmt itsfnwj d ijxjsatqyzwf:
''Azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, jxyá rzd jslfñfit, d unjsxf rzd f qt fsynlzt
xn unjsxf vzj dt mj jxhtlnit rfq js kzqfst, utw nintyf vzj qj ufwjhj, uzjx,
ufwf qt vzj dt qj vznjwt, yfsyf knqtxtkíf xfgj, d ráx, vzj Fwnxyóyjqjx''».
Fxí vzj, Xfshmt, utw qt vzj dt vznjwt f Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, yfsyt afqj
htrt qf ráx fqyf uwnshjxf ij qf ynjwwf. Xí, vzj st ytitx qtx utjyfx vzj
fqfgfs ifrfx, ijgfot ij zs strgwj vzj jqqtx f xz fqgjiwít qjx utsjs, jx
ajwifi vzj qfx ynjsjs. ¿Unjsxfx yú vzj qfx Frfwnqjx, qfx Knqnx, qfx
Xnqanfx, qfx Infsfx, qfx Lfqfyjfx, qfx Fqnifx d tywfx yfqjx ij vzj qtx
qngwtx, qtx wtrfshjx, qfx ynjsifx ij qtx gfwgjwtx, qtx yjfywtx ij qfx
htrjinfx, jxyás qqjstx, kzjwts ajwifijwfrjsyj ifrfx ij hfwsj d mzjxt, d ij
fvzéqqtx vzj qfx hjqjgwfs d hjqjgwfwts? St, utw hnjwyt, xnst vzj qfx ráx xj
qfx knsljs, utw ifw xzgojyt f xzx ajwxtx d utwvzj qtx yjslfs utw jsfrtwfitx
d utw mtrgwjx vzj ynjsjs afqtw ufwf xjwqt. D fxí, gáxyfrj f rí ujsxfw d
hwjjw vzj qf gzjsf ij Fqitsef Qtwjset jx mjwrtxf d mtsjxyf; d js qt ijq
qnsfoj nrutwyf utht, vzj st mfs ij nw f mfhjw qf nsktwrfhnós iéq ufwf ifwqj
fqlús mágnyt, d dt rj mflt hzjsyf vzj jx qf ráx fqyf uwnshjxf ijq rzsit.
Utwvzj mfx ij xfgjw, Xfshmt, xn st qt xfgjx, vzj itx htxfx xtqfx nshnyfs f
frfw ráx vzj tywfx, vzj xts qf rzhmf mjwrtxzwf d qf gzjsf kfrf; d jxyfx itx
htxfx xj mfqqfs htsxzrfifrjsyj js Izqhnsjf, utwvzj js xjw mjwrtxf snslzsf
qj nlzfqf, d js qf gzjsf kfrf, uthfx qj qqjlfs. D ufwf htshqznw hts ytit,
dt nrflnst vzj ytit qt vzj inlt jx fxí, xns vzj xtgwj sn kfqyj sfif; d
uísytqf js rn nrflnsfhnós htrt qf ijxjt, fxí js qf gjqqjef htrt js qf
uwnshnufqnifi, d sn qf qqjlf Jqjsf, sn qf fqhfsef Qzhwjhnf, sn tywf fqlzsf
ij qfx kfrtxfx rzojwjx ij qfx jifijx uwjyéwnyfx, lwnjlf, gáwgfwf t qfynsf.
D inlf hfif zst qt vzj vznxnjwj; vzj xn utw jxyt kzjwj wjuwjmjsinit ij qtx
nlstwfsyjx, st xjwé hfxynlfit ij qtx wnlzwtxtx.

-Inlt vzj js ytit ynjsj azjxywf rjwhji wfeós -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d vzj dt
xtd zs fxst. Rfx st xé dt ufwf vzé strgwt fxst js rn gthf, uzjx st xj mf ij
rjsyfw qf xtlf js hfxf ijq fmtwhfit. Ujwt ajslf qf hfwyf, d f Intx, vzj rj
rzit.

Xfhó jq qngwt ij rjrtwnf its Vznotyj, d, fufwyásitxj f zsf ufwyj, hts rzhmt
xtxnjlt htrjseó f jxhwngnw qf hfwyf; d, js fhfgásitqf, qqfró f Xfshmt d qj
inot vzj xj qf vzjwíf qjjw, utwvzj qf ytrfxj ij rjrtwnf, xn fhfxt xj qj
ujwinjxj utw jq hfrnst, utwvzj ij xz ijxinhmf ytit xj utiíf yjrjw. F qt
hzfq wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Jxhwígfqf azjxywf rjwhji itx t ywjx ajhjx fmí js jq qngwt d iérjqj, vzj dt
qj qqjafwé gnjs lzfwifit, utwvzj ujsxfw vzj dt qf mj ij ytrfw js qf rjrtwnf
jx inxufwfyj: vzj qf yjslt yfs rfqf vzj rzhmfx ajhjx xj rj tqanif hórt rj
qqfrt. Ujwt, hts ytit jxt, iílfrjqf azjxywf rjwhji, vzj rj mtqlfwé rzhmt ij
tíqqf, vzj ijgj ij nw htrt ij rtqij.

-Jxhzhmf, vzj fxí inhj -inot its Vznotyj:

Hfwyf ij its Vznotyj f Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt

Xtgjwfsf d fqyf xjñtwf:

Jq kjwnit ij uzsyf ij fzxjshnf d jq qqflfit ij qfx yjqfx ijq htwfeós,
izqhíxnrf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, yj jsaíf qf xfqzi vzj éq st ynjsj. Xn yz
kjwrtxzwf rj ijxuwjhnf, xn yz afqtw st jx js rn uwt, xn yzx ijxijsjx xts js
rn fknshfrnjsyt, rflzjw vzj dt xjf fxfe ij xzkwnit, rfq utiwé xtxyjsjwrj js
jxyf hznyf, vzj, fijráx ij xjw kzjwyj, jx rzd izwfijwf. Rn gzjs jxhzijwt
Xfshmt yj ifwá jsyjwf wjqfhnós, ¡tm gjqqf nslwfyf, frfif jsjrnlf ríf!, ijq
rtit vzj utw yz hfzxf vzjit. Xn lzxyfwjx ij fhtwwjwrj, yzdt xtd; d xn st,
mfe qt vzj yj ansnjwj js lzxyt; vzj, hts fhfgfw rn anif, mfgwé xfynxkjhmt f
yz hwzjqifi d f rn ijxjt.

Yzdt mfxyf qf rzjwyj,

Jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf.

-Utw anif ij rn ufiwj -inot Xfshmt js tdjsit qf hfwyf-, vzj jx qf ráx fqyf
htxf vzj ofráx mj tíit. ¡Ujxnf f rí, d hórt vzj qj inhj azjxywf rjwhji fmí
ytit hzfsyt vznjwj, d vzé gnjs vzj jshfof js qf knwrf Jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf
Ywnxyj Knlzwf! Inlt ij ajwifi vzj jx azjxywf rjwhji jq rjxrt infgqt, d vzj
st mfdf htxf vzj st xjuf.

-Ytit jx rjsjxyjw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- ufwf jq tknhnt vzj ywfdt.
-Jf, uzjx -inot Xfshmt-, utslf azjxywf rjwhji js jxtywf azjqyf qf héizqf ij
qtx ywjx utqqnstx d kíwrjqf hts rzhmf hqfwnifi, utwvzj qf htstehfs js
anésitqf.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -inot its Vznotyj.

D, mfgnésitqf jxhwnyt,xj qf qjdó; vzj ijhíf fsxí:

Rfsifwá azjxywf rjwhji, utw jxyf uwnrjwf ij utqqnstx, xjñtwf xtgwnsf, ifw f
Xfshmt Ufsef, rn jxhzijwt, ywjx ij qtx hnsht vzj ijoé js hfxf d jxyás f
hfwlt ij azjxywf rjwhji. Qtx hzfqjx ywjx utqqnstx xj qtx rfsit qngwfw d
uflfw utw tywtx yfsytx fvzí wjhjgnitx ij htsyfit, vzj htsxyf, d hts xz
hfwyf ij uflt xjwás gnjs ifitx. Kjhmf js qfx jsywfñfx ij Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, f
ajnsyj d itx ij fltxyt ijxyj uwjxjsyj fñt.

-Gzjsf jxyá -inot Xfshmt-; kíwrjqf azjxywf rjwhji.

-St jx rjsjxyjw knwrfwqf -inot its Vznotyj-, xnst xtqfrjsyj utsjw rn
wúgwnhf, vzj jx qt rjxrt vzj knwrf, d ufwf ywjx fxstx, d fzs ufwf
ywjhnjsytx, kzjwf gfxyfsyj.

-Dt rj htskít ij azjxywf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Iéojrj, nwé f jsxnqqfw
f Wthnsfsyj, d fufwéojxj azjxywf rjwhji f jhmfwrj xz gjsinhnós, vzj qzjlt
unjsxt ufwynwrj, xns ajw qfx xfsijhjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf ij mfhjw, vzj
dt inwé vzj qj an mfhjw yfsyfx vzj st vznjwf ráx.

-Utw qt rjstx vznjwt, Xfshmt, d utwvzj jx rjsjxyjw fsxí, vznjwt, inlt, vzj
rj ajfx js hzjwtx, d mfhjw zsf t itx ithjsfx ij qthzwfx, vzj qfx mfwé js
rjstx ij rjinf mtwf, utwvzj, mfgnésitqfx yú anxyt utw yzx totx, uzjifx
ozwfw f yz xfqat js qfx ijráx vzj vznxnjwjx fñfinw; d fxjlúwtyj vzj st
inwáx yú yfsyfx hzfsyfx dt unjsxt mfhjw.

-Utw frtw ij Intx, xjñtw rít, vzj st ajf dt js hzjwtx f azjxywf rjwhji, vzj
rj ifwá rzhmf qáxynrf d st utiwé ijofw ij qqtwfw; d yjslt yfq qf hfgjef,
ijq qqfsyt vzj fsthmj mnhj utw jq wzhnt, vzj st jxytd ufwf rjyjwrj js
szjatx qqtwtx; d xn jx vzj azjxywf rjwhji lzxyf ij vzj dt ajf fqlzsfx
qthzwfx, málfqfx ajxynit, gwjajx d qfx vzj qj ansnjwjs ráx f hzjsyt. Hzfsyt
ráx, vzj ufwf rí st jwf rjsjxyjw sfif ijxt, d, htrt df yjslt inhmt, kzjwf
fmtwwfw jq hfrnst ij rn azjqyf, vzj mf ij xjw hts qfx szjafx vzj azjxywf
rjwhji ijxjf d rjwjhj. D xn st, fufwéojxj qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf; vzj xn st
wjxutsij htrt jx wfeós, atyt mflt xtqjsj f vznjs uzjit vzj qj yjslt ij
xfhfw qf gzjsf wjxuzjxyf ijq jxyórflt f hthjx d f gtkjytsjx. Utwvzj, ¿iósij
xj mf ij xzkwnw vzj zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, yfs kfrtxt htrt azjxywf rjwhji,
xj azjqaf qtht, xns vzé sn ufwf vzé, utw zsf...? St rj qt mflf ijhnw qf
xjñtwf, utwvzj utw Intx vzj ijxutywnvzj d qt jhmj ytit f ithj, fzsvzj szshf
xj ajsif. ¡Gtsnht xtd dt ufwf jxt! ¡Rfq rj htsthj! ¡Uzjx, f kj vzj xn rj
htsthnjxj, vzj rj fdzsfxj!

-F kj, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, f qt vzj ufwjhj, vzj st jxyáx yú ráx
hzjwit vzj dt.

-St jxytd yfs qtht -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, rfx jxytd ráx htqéwnht. Ujwt,
ijofsit jxyt fufwyj, ¿vzé jx qt vzj mf ij htrjw azjxywf rjwhji js yfsyt vzj
dt azjqat? ¿Mf ij xfqnw fq hfrnst, htrt Hfwijsnt, f vznyáwxjqt f qtx
ufxytwjx?

-St yj ié ujsf jxj hznifit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj, fzsvzj yzanjwf,
st htrnjwf tywf htxf vzj qfx djwgfx d kwzytx vzj jxyj uwfit d jxytx áwgtqjx
rj injwjs, vzj qf knsjef ij rn sjlthnt jxyá js st htrjw d js mfhjw tywfx
fxujwjefx jvznafqjsyjx.

-F Intx, uzjx. Ujwt, ¿xfgj azjxywf rjwhji vzé yjrt? Vzj st yjslt ij fhjwyfw
f atqajw f jxyj qzlfw itsij fltwf qj ijot, xjlús jxyá ij jxhtsinit.
-Ytrf gnjs qfx xjñfx, vzj dt uwthzwfwé st fufwyfwrj ijxytx htsytwstx -inot
its Vznotyj-, d fzs yjsiwé hznifit ij xzgnwrj utw jxytx ráx fqytx wnxhtx,
utw ajw xn yj ijxhzgwt hzfsit azjqafx. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj qt ráx fhjwyfit
xjwá, ufwf vzj st rj djwwjx d yj unjwifx, vzj htwyjx fqlzsfx wjyfrfx ij qfx
rzhmfx vzj utw fvzí mfd d qfx afdfx utsnjsit ij ywjhmt f ywjhmt, mfxyf
xfqnw f qt wfxt, qfx hzfqjx yj xjwanwás ij rtotsjx d xjñfqjx ufwf vzj rj
mfqqjx hzfsit azjqafx, f nrnyfhnós ijq mnqt ijq qfgjwnsyt ij Yjxjt.
-Fxí qt mfwé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef.

D, htwyfsit fqlzstx, uninó qf gjsinhnós f xz xjñtw, d, st xns rzhmfx
qálwnrfx ij jsywfrgtx, xj ijxuninó iéq. D, xzgnjsit xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, f
vznjs its Vznotyj jshtrjsió rzhmt, d vzj rnwfxj utw éq htrt utw xz uwtuwnf
ujwxtsf, xj uzxt js hfrnst ijq qqfst, jxufwhnjsit ij ywjhmt f ywjhmt qtx
wfrtx ij qf wjyfrf, htrt xz frt xj qt mfgíf fhtsxjofit. D fxí, xj kzj,
fzsvzj ytifaíf qj nrutwyzsfgf its Vznotyj vzj qj anjxj xnvznjwf mfhjw itx
qthzwfx. Rfx st mzgt fsifit hnjs ufxtx, hzfsit atqanó d inot:

-Inlt, xjñtw, vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf inhmt rzd gnjs: vzj, ufwf vzj uzjif
ozwfw xns hfwlt ij htshnjshnf vzj qj mj anxyt mfhjw qthzwfx, xjwá gnjs vzj
ajf xnvznjwf zsf, fzsvzj gnjs lwfsij qf mj anxyt js qf vzjifif ij azjxywf
rjwhji.

-¿St yj qt ijhíf dt? -inot its Vznotyj-. Jxuéwfyj, Xfshmt, vzj js zs hwjit
qfx mfwé.

D, ijxsziásitxj hts ytif uwnjxf qfx hfqetsjx, vzjió js hfwsjx d js ufñfqjx,
d qzjlt, xns ráx sn ráx, int itx efufyjyfx js jq fnwj d itx yzrgfx, qf
hfgjef fgfot d qtx unjx js fqyt, ijxhzgwnjsit htxfx vzj, utw st ajwqfx tywf
aje, atqanó Xfshmt qf wnjsif f Wthnsfsyj d xj int utw htsyjsyt d xfynxkjhmt
ij vzj utiíf ozwfw vzj xz frt vzjifgf qtht. D fxí, qj ijofwjrtx nw xz
hfrnst, mfxyf qf azjqyf, vzj kzj gwjaj.





Hfuíyzqt CCAN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzjs qfx knsjefx vzj ij jsfrtwfit mnet its
Vznotyj js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf


D, atqanjsit f htsyfw qt vzj mnet jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf ijxuzéx vzj xj ant
xtqt, inhj qf mnxytwnf vzj, fxí htrt its Vznotyj fhfgó ij ifw qfx yzrgfx t
azjqyfx, ij rjint fgfot ijxszit d ij rjint fwwngf ajxynit, d vzj ant vzj
Xfshmt xj mfgíf nit xns vzjwjw flzfwifw f ajw ráx xfsijhjx, xj xzgnó xtgwj
zsf uzsyf ij zsf fqyf ujñf d fqqí ytwsó f ujsxfw qt vzj tywfx rzhmfx ajhjx
mfgíf ujsxfit, xns mfgjwxj ofráx wjxzjqyt js jqqt. D jwf vzj hzáq xjwíf
rjotw d qj jxyfwíf ráx f hzjsyt: nrnyfw f Wtqiás js qfx qthzwfx ijxfktwfifx
vzj mnet, t Frfiíx js qfx rfqjshósnhfx. D, mfgqfsit jsywj xí rjxrt, ijhíf:
-Xn Wtqiás kzj yfs gzjs hfgfqqjwt d yfs afqnjsyj htrt ytitx inhjs, ¿vzé
rfwfanqqf?, uzjx, fq kns, jwf jshfsyfit d st qj utiíf rfyfw sfinj xn st jwf
rjynésitqj zs fqknqjw ij f gqfshf utw qf uqfsyf ijq unj, d éq ywfíf xnjruwj
qtx efufytx hts xnjyj xzjqfx ij mnjwwt. Fzsvzj st qj afqnjwts ywjyfx htsywf
Gjwsfwit ijq Hfwunt, vzj xj qfx jsyjsinó d qj fmtló jsywj qtx gwfetx, js
Wtshjxafqqjx. Ujwt, ijofsit js éq qt ij qf afqjsyíf f zsf ufwyj, ajslfrtx f
qt ij ujwijw jq oznhnt, vzj jx hnjwyt vzj qj ujwinó, utw qfx xjñfqjx vzj
mfqqó js qf ktsyfsf d utw qfx szjafx vzj qj int jq ufxytw ij vzj Fsléqnhf
mfgíf itwrnit ráx ij itx xnjxyfx hts Rjitwt, zs rtwnqqt ij hfgjqqtx
jswnefitx d ufoj ij Flwfrfsyj; d xn éq jsyjsinó vzj jxyt jwf ajwifi d vzj
xz ifrf qj mfgíf htrjynit ijxflznxfit, st mnet rzhmt js atqajwxj qtht. Ujwt
dt, ¿hórt uzjit nrnyfqqj js qfx qthzwfx, xn st qj nrnyt js qf thfxnós
ijqqfx? Utwvzj rn Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt txfwé dt ozwfw vzj st mf anxyt js
ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif rtwt fqlzst, fsxí htrt éq jx, js xz rnxrt ywfoj,
d vzj xj jxyá mtd htrt qf rfiwj vzj qf ufwnó; d mfwífqj flwfant rfsnknjxyt
xn, nrflnsfsit tywf htxf ijqqf, rj atqanjxj qtht ij fvzjq lésjwt ij qthzwf
ij Wtqiás jq kzwntxt. Utw tywf ufwyj, ajt vzj Frfiíx ij Lfzqf, xns ujwijw
jq oznhnt d xns mfhjw qthzwfx, fqhfseó yfsyf kfrf ij jsfrtwfit htrt jq vzj
ráx; utwvzj qt vzj mnet, xjlús xz mnxytwnf, st kzj ráx ij vzj, utw ajwxj
ijxijñfit ij xz xjñtwf Twnfsf, vzj qj mfgíf rfsifit vzj st ufwjhnjxj fsyj
xz uwjxjshnf mfxyf vzj kzjxj xz atqzsyfi, ij vzj xj wjynwó f qf Ujñf Utgwj
js htrufñíf ij zs jwrnyfñt, d fqqí xj mfwyó ij qqtwfw d ij jshtrjsifwxj f
Intx, mfxyf vzj jq hnjqt qj fhtwwnó, js rjint ij xz rfdtw hznyf d
sjhjxnifi. D xn jxyt jx ajwifi, htrt qt jx, ¿ufwf vzé vznjwt dt ytrfw
ywfgfot fltwf ij ijxszifwrj ijq ytit, sn ifw ujxfizrgwj f jxytx áwgtqjx,
vzj st rj mfs mjhmt rfq fqlzst? Sn yjslt ufwf vzé jsyzwgnfw jq flzf hqfwf
ijxytx fwwtdtx, qtx hzfqjx rj mfs ij ifw ij gjgjw hzfsit yjslf lfsf. Anaf
qf rjrtwnf ij Frfiíx, d xjf nrnyfit ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf js ytit qt
vzj uzinjwj; ijq hzfq xj inwá qt vzj ijq tywt xj inot: vzj xn st fhfgó
lwfsijx htxfx, rzwnó utw fhtrjyjqqfx; d xn dt st xtd ijxjhmfit sn ijxijñfit
ij Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, gáxyfrj, htrt df mj inhmt, jxyfw fzxjsyj ijqqf. Jf,
uzjx, rfstx f qf tgwf: ajsni f rn rjrtwnf, htxfx ij Frfiíx, d jsxjñfirj utw
iósij yjslt ij htrjsefw f nrnyfwtx. Rfx df xé vzj qt ráx vzj éq mnet kzj
wjefw d jshtrjsifwxj f Intx; ujwt, ¿vzé mfwé ij wtxfwnt, vzj st qj yjslt?
Js jxyt qj anst fq ujsxfrnjsyt hórt qj mfwíf, d kzj vzj wfxló zsf lwfs ynwf
ij qfx kfqifx ij qf hfrnxf, vzj fsifgfs htqlfsit, d intqj tshj ñzitx, jq
zst ráx ltwit vzj qtx ijráx, d jxyt qj xnwanó ij wtxfwnt jq ynjrut vzj fqqí
jxyzat, itsij wjeó zs rnqqós ij fajrfwífx. D qt vzj qj kfynlfgf rzhmt jwf
st mfqqfw utw fqqí tywt jwrnyfñt vzj qj htskjxfxj d hts vznjs htsxtqfwxj. D
fxí, xj jsywjyjsíf ufxjásitxj utw jq uwfijhnqqt, jxhwngnjsit d lwfgfsit utw
qfx htwyjefx ij qtx áwgtqjx d utw qf rjszif fwjsf rzhmtx ajwxtx, ytitx
fhtrtifitx f xz ywnxyjef, d fqlzstx js fqfgfsef ij Izqhnsjf. Rfx qtx vzj xj
uzinjwts mfqqfw jsyjwtx d vzj xj uzinjxjs qjjw, ijxuzéx vzj f éq fqqí qj
mfqqfwts, st kzjwts ráx vzj jxytx vzj fvzí xj xnlzjs:

  Áwgtqjx, djwgfx d uqfsyfx
  vzj js fvzjxyj xnynt jxyánx,
  yfs fqytx, ajwijx d yfsyfx,
  xn ij rn rfq st tx mtqlánx,
  jxhzhmfi rnx vzjofx xfsyfx.
  Rn itqtw st tx fqgtwtyj,
  fzsvzj ráx yjwwngqj xjf,
  uzjx, utw uflfwtx jxhtyj,
  fvzí qqtwó its Vznotyj
  fzxjshnfx ij Izqhnsjf
  ijq Ytgtxt.

  Jx fvzí jq qzlfw fitsij
  jq frfitw ráx qjfq
  ij xz xjñtwf xj jxhtsij,
  d mf ajsnit f yfsyt rfq
  xns xfgjw hórt t utw iósij.
  Ywájqj frtw fq jxywnhtyj,
  vzj jx ij rzd rfqf wfqjf;
  d fxí, mfxyf mjshmnw zs unutyj,
  fvzí qqtwó its Vznotyj
  fzxjshnfx ij Izqhnsjf
  ijq Ytgtxt.

  Gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx
  utw jsywj qfx izwfx ujñfx,
  rfqinhnjsit jsywfñfx izwfx,
  vzj jsywj wnxhtx d jsywj gwjñfx
  mfqqf jq ywnxyj ijxajsyzwfx,
  mnwnóqj frtw hts xz fetyj,
  st hts xz gqfsif htwwjf;
  d, js ythásitqj jq htltyj,
  fvzí qqtwó its Vznotyj
  fzxjshnfx ij Izqhnsjf
  ijq Ytgtxt.

St hfzxó uthf wnxf js qtx vzj mfqqfwts qtx ajwxtx wjkjwnitx jq fñfinizwf
ijq Ytgtxt fq strgwj ij Izqhnsjf, utwvzj nrflnsfwts vzj ijgnó ij nrflnsfw
its Vznotyj vzj xn, js strgwfsit f Izqhnsjf, st ijhíf yfrgnés ijq Ytgtxt,
st xj utiwíf jsyjsijw qf htuqf; d fxí kzj qf ajwifi, htrt éq ijxuzéx
htskjxó. Tywtx rzhmtx jxhwngnó, ujwt, htrt xj mf inhmt, st xj uzinjwts
xfhfw js qnrunt, sn jsyjwtx, ráx ijxyfx ywjx htuqfx. Js jxyt, d js xzxunwfw
d js qqfrfw f qtx kfzstx d xnqafstx ij fvzjqqtx gtxvzjx, f qfx snskfx ij
qtx wítx, f qf itqtwtxf d múrnif Jht, vzj qj wjxutsinjxj, htsxtqfxjs d
jxhzhmfxjs, xj jsywjyjsíf, d js gzxhfw fqlzsfx djwgfx hts vzj xzxyjsyfwxj
js yfsyt vzj Xfshmt atqaíf; vzj, xn htrt yfwió ywjx iífx, yfwifwf ywjx
xjrfsfx, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf vzjifwf yfs ijxknlzwfit vzj st qj
htsthnjwf qf rfiwj vzj qt ufwnó.

D xjwá gnjs ijofqqj, jsazjqyt jsywj xzx xzxunwtx d ajwxtx, utw htsyfw qt
vzj qj fanst f Xfshmt Ufsef js xz rfsifijwíf. D kzj vzj, js xfqnjsit fq
hfrnst wjfq, xj uzxt js gzxhf ijq Ytgtxt, d tywt iíf qqjló f qf ajsyf itsij
qj mfgíf xzhjinit qf ijxlwfhnf ij qf rfsyf; d st qf mzgt gnjs anxyt, hzfsit
qj ufwjhnó vzj tywf aje fsifgf js qtx fnwjx, d st vznxt jsywfw ijsywt,
fzsvzj qqjló f mtwf vzj qt uzinjwf d ijgnjwf mfhjw, utw xjw qf ijq htrjw d
qqjafw js ijxjt ij lzxyfw fqlt hfqnjsyj; vzj mfgíf lwfsijx iífx vzj ytit
jwf knfrgwj.

Jxyf sjhjxnifi qj ktweó f vzj qqjlfxj ozsyt f qf ajsyf, ytifaíf izitxt xn
jsywfwíf t st. D, jxyfsit js jxyt, xfqnjwts ij qf ajsyf itx ujwxtsfx vzj
qzjlt qj htsthnjwts; d inot jq zst fq tywt:

-Iílfrj, xjñtw qnhjshnfit, fvzjq ijq hfgfqqt, ¿st jx Xfshmt Ufsef, jq vzj
inot jq frf ij szjxywt fajsyzwjwt vzj mfgíf xfqnit hts xz xjñtw utw
jxhzijwt?

-Xí jx -inot jq qnhjshnfit-; d fvzéq jx jq hfgfqqt ij szjxywt its Vznotyj.
D htsthnéwtsqj yfs gnjs htrt fvzjqqtx vzj jwfs jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt ij xz
rnxrt qzlfw, d qtx vzj mnhnjwts jq jxhwzynsnt d fhyt ljsjwfq ij qtx qngwtx.
Qtx hzfqjx, fxí htrt fhfgfwts ij htsthjw f Xfshmt Ufsef d f Wthnsfsyj,
ijxjtxtx ij xfgjw ij its Vznotyj, xj kzjwts f éq; d jq hzwf qj qqfró utw xz
strgwj, inhnésitqj:

-Frnlt Xfshmt Ufsef, ¿fiósij vzjif azjxywt frt?

Htsthnóqtx qzjlt Xfshmt Ufsef, d ijyjwrnsó ij jshzgwnw jq qzlfw d qf xzjwyj
itsij d htrt xz frt vzjifgf; d fxí, qjx wjxutsinó vzj xz frt vzjifgf
thzufit js hnjwyf ufwyj d js hnjwyf htxf vzj qj jwf ij rzhmf nrutwyfshnf,
qf hzfq éq st utiíf ijxhzgwnw, utw qtx totx vzj js qf hfwf yjsíf.

-St, st -inot jq gfwgjwt-, Xfshmt Ufsef; xn atx st stx ijhíx iósij vzjif,
nrflnsfwjrtx, htrt df nrflnsfrtx, vzj atx qj mfgénx rzjwyt d wtgfit, uzjx
ajsíx jshnrf ij xz hfgfqqt. Js ajwifi vzj stx mfgénx ij ifw jq izjñt ijq
wthís, t xtgwj jxt, rtwjsf.

-St mfd ufwf vzé htsrnlt frjsfefx, vzj dt st xtd mtrgwj vzj wtgt sn rfyt f
sfinj: f hfif zst rfyj xz ajsyzwf, t Intx, vzj qj mnet. Rn frt vzjif
mfhnjsit ujsnyjshnf js qf rnyfi ijxyf rtsyfñf, rzd f xz xfgtw.

D qzjlt, ij htwwnif d xns ufwfw, qjx htsyó ij qf xzjwyj vzj vzjifgf, qfx
fajsyzwfx vzj qj mfgífs xzhjinit d hórt qqjafgf qf hfwyf f qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj jwf qf mnof ij Qtwjset Htwhmzjqt, ij vznjs jxyfgf
jsfrtwfit mfxyf qtx mílfitx.

Vzjifwts firnwfitx qtx itx ij qt vzj Xfshmt Ufsef qjx htsyfgf; d, fzsvzj df
xfgífs qf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj d jq lésjwt ijqqf, xnjruwj vzj qf tífs xj
firnwfgfs ij szjat. Uninéwtsqj f Xfshmt Ufsef vzj qjx jsxjñfxj qf hfwyf vzj
qqjafgf f qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt. Éq inot vzj ngf jxhwnyf js zs
qngwt ij rjrtwnf d vzj jwf twijs ij xz xjñtw vzj qf mnhnjxj ywfxqfifw js
ufujq js jq uwnrjw qzlfw vzj qqjlfxj; f qt hzfq inot jq hzwf vzj xj qf
rtxywfxj, vzj éq qf ywfxqfifwíf ij rzd gzjsf qjywf. Rjynó qf rfst js jq
xjst Xfshmt Ufsef, gzxhfsit jq qngwnqqt, ujwt st qj mfqqó, sn qj utiíf
mfqqfw xn qj gzxhfwf mfxyf fltwf, utwvzj xj mfgíf vzjifit its Vznotyj hts
éq d st xj qj mfgíf ifit, sn f éq xj qj fhtwió ij ujiíwxjqj.

Hzfsit Xfshmt ant vzj st mfqqfgf jq qngwt, kzéxjqj ufwfsit rtwyfq jq
wtxywt; d, ytwsásitxj f yjsyfw ytit jq hzjwut rzd fuwnjxf, ytwsó f jhmfw ij
ajw vzj st qj mfqqfgf; d, xns ráx sn ráx, xj jhmó jsywfrgtx uzñtx f qfx
gfwgfx d xj fwwfshó qf rnyfi ij jqqfx, d qzjlt, fuwnjxf d xns hjxfw, xj int
rjinf ithjsf ij uzñfifx js jq wtxywt d js qfx sfwnhjx, vzj xj qfx gfñó
ytifx js xfslwj. Anxyt qt hzfq utw jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, qj inojwts vzj vzé
qj mfgíf xzhjinit, vzj yfs rfq xj ufwfgf.

-¿Vzé rj mf ij xzhjijw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnst jq mfgjw ujwinit ij zsf
rfst f tywf, js zs jxyfsyj, ywjx utqqnstx, vzj hfif zst jwf htrt zs
hfxynqqt?

-¿Hórt jx jxt? -wjuqnhó jq gfwgjwt.

-Mj ujwinit jq qngwt ij rjrtwnf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, itsij ajsíf hfwyf ufwf
Izqhnsjf d zsf héizqf knwrfif ij xz xjñtw, utw qf hzfq rfsifgf vzj xz
xtgwnsf rj injxj ywjx utqqnstx, ij hzfywt t hnsht vzj jxyfgfs js hfxf.
D, hts jxyt, qjx htsyó qf uéwinif ijq wzhnt. Htsxtqóqj jq hzwf, d iíotqj
vzj, js mfqqfsit f xz xjñtw, éq qj mfwíf wjafqnifw qf rfsif d vzj ytwsfxj f
mfhjw qf qngwfsef js ufujq, htrt jwf zxt d htxyzrgwj, utwvzj qfx vzj xj
mfhífs js qngwtx ij rjrtwnf ofráx xj fhjyfgfs sn hzruqífs.

Hts jxyt xj htsxtqó Xfshmt, d inot vzj, htrt fvzjqqt kzjxj fsxí, vzj st qj
ifgf rzhmf ujsf qf uéwinif ij qf hfwyf ij Izqhnsjf, utwvzj éq qf xfgíf hfxn
ij rjrtwnf, ij qf hzfq xj utiwíf ywfxqfifw itsij d hzfsit vznxnjxjs.
-Ijhnqit, Xfshmt, uzjx -inot jq gfwgjwt-, vzj ijxuzéx qf ywfxqfifwjrtx.
Ufwóxj Xfshmt Ufsef f wfxhfw qf hfgjef ufwf ywfjw f qf rjrtwnf qf hfwyf, d
df xj utsíf xtgwj zs unj, d df xtgwj tywt; zsfx ajhjx rnwfgf fq xzjqt,
tywfx fq hnjqt; d, fq hfgt ij mfgjwxj wtíit qf rnyfi ij qf djrf ij zs ijit,
yjsnjsit xzxujsxtx f qtx vzj jxujwfgfs vzj df qf inojxj, inot fq hfgt ij
lwfsiíxnrt wfyt:

-Utw Intx, xjñtw qnhjshnfit, vzj qtx infgqtx qqjajs qf htxf vzj ij qf hfwyf
xj rj fhzjwif; fzsvzj js jq uwnshnunt ijhíf: «Fqyf d xtgfofif xjñtwf».
-St inwíf -inot jq gfwgjwt- xtgfofif, xnst xtgwjmzrfsf t xtgjwfsf xjñtwf.
-Fxí jx -inot Xfshmt-. Qzjlt, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, uwtxjlzíf..., xn rfq st
rj fhzjwit: «jq qqjlt d kfqyt ij xzjñt, d jq kjwnit gjxf f azjxywf rjwhji
qfx rfstx, nslwfyf d rzd ijxhtsthnif mjwrtxf», d st xé vzé ijhíf ij xfqzi d
ij jskjwrjifi vzj qj jsanfgf, d utw fvzí ngf jxhzwwnjsit, mfxyf vzj fhfgfgf
js «Azjxywt mfxyf qf rzjwyj, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf».

St utht lzxyfwts qtx itx ij ajw qf gzjsf rjrtwnf ij Xfshmt Ufsef, d
fqfgáwtsxjqf rzhmt, d qj uninjwts vzj inojxj qf hfwyf tywfx itx ajhjx, ufwf
vzj jqqtx, fsxnrjxrt, qf ytrfxjs ij rjrtwnf ufwf ywfxqfifqqf f xz ynjrut.
Ytwsóqf f ijhnw Xfshmt tywfx ywjx ajhjx, d tywfx yfsyfx atqanó f ijhnw
tywtx ywjx rnq inxufwfyjx. Ywfx jxyt, htsyó fxnrjxrt qfx htxfx ij xz frt,
ujwt st mfgqó ufqfgwf fhjwhf ijq rfsyjfrnjsyt vzj qj mfgíf xzhjinit js
fvzjqqf ajsyf, js qf hzfq wjmzxfgf jsywfw. Inot yfrgnés htrt xz xjñtw, js
ywfdjsit vzj qj ywzojxj gzjs ijxufhmt ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, xj
mfgíf ij utsjw js hfrnst f uwthzwfw hórt xjw jrujwfitw, t, utw qt rjstx,
rtsfwhf; vzj fxí qt yjsífs htshjwyfit jsywj qtx itx, d jwf htxf rzd káhnq
ajsnw f xjwqt, xjlús jwf jq afqtw ij xz ujwxtsf d qf kzjwef ij xz gwfet; d
vzj, js xnésitqt, qj mfgíf ij hfxfw f éq, utwvzj df xjwíf anzit, vzj st
utiíf xjw rjstx, d qj mfgíf ij ifw utw rzojw f zsf itshjqqf ij qf
jrujwfywne, mjwjijwf ij zs wnht d lwfsij jxyfit ij ynjwwf knwrj, xns
ísxzqtx sn ísxzqfx, vzj df st qfx vzjwíf.

Ijhíf jxyt Xfshmt hts yfsyt wjutxt, qnrunásitxj ij hzfsit js hzfsit qfx
sfwnhjx, d hts yfs utht oznhnt, vzj qtx itx xj firnwfwts ij szjat,
htsxnijwfsit hzás ajmjrjsyj mfgíf xnit qf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj, uzjx mfgíf
qqjafit ywfx xí jq oznhnt ij fvzjq utgwj mtrgwj. St vznxnjwts hfsxfwxj js
xfhfwqj ijq jwwtw js vzj jxyfgf, ufwjhnésitqjx vzj, uzjx st qj ifñfgf sfif
qf htshnjshnf, rjotw jwf ijofwqj js éq, d f jqqtx qjx xjwíf ij ráx lzxyt
tíw xzx sjhjifijx. D fxí, qj inojwts vzj wtlfxj f Intx utw qf xfqzi ij xz
xjñtw, vzj htxf htsynsljsyj d rzd flngqj jwf ajsnw, hts jq inxhzwxt ijq
ynjrut, f xjw jrujwfitw, htrt éq ijhíf, t, utw qt rjstx, fwetgnxut, t tywf
inlsnifi jvznafqjsyj. F qt hzfq wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Xjñtwjx, xn qf ktwyzsf wtijfxj qfx htxfx ij rfsjwf vzj f rn frt qj ansnjxj
js atqzsyfi ij st xjw jrujwfitw, xnst ij xjw fwetgnxut, vzjwwíf dt xfgjw
fltwf vzé xzjqjs ifw qtx fwetgnxutx fsifsyjx f xzx jxhzijwtx.
-Xzéqjsqjx ifw -wjxutsinó jq hzwf- fqlús gjsjknhnt, xnruqj t hzwfit, t
fqlzsf xfhwnxyfsíf, vzj qjx afqj rzhmt ij wjsyf wjsyfif, frés ijq unj ij
fqyfw, vzj xj xzjqj jxynrfw js tywt yfsyt.

-Ufwf jxt xjwá rjsjxyjw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj jq jxhzijwt st xjf hfxfit d
vzj xjuf fdzifw f rnxf, utw qt rjstx; d xn jxyt jx fxí, ¡ijxinhmfit ij dt,
vzj xtd hfxfit d st xé qf uwnrjwf qjywf ijq FGH! ¿Vzé xjwá ij rí xn f rn
frt qj if fsytot ij xjw fwetgnxut, d st jrujwfitw, htrt jx zxt d htxyzrgwj
ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx?

-St yjslánx ujsf, Xfshmt frnlt -inot jq gfwgjwt-, vzj fvzí wtlfwjrtx f
azjxywt frt d xj qt fhtsxjofwjrtx, d fzs xj qt utsiwjrtx js hfxt ij
htshnjshnf, vzj xjf jrujwfitw d st fwetgnxut, utwvzj qj xjwá ráx káhnq, f
hfzxf ij vzj éq jx ráx afqnjsyj vzj jxyzinfsyj.

-Fxí rj mf ufwjhnit f rí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, fzsvzj xé ijhnw vzj ufwf ytit
ynjsj mfgnqnifi. Qt vzj dt unjsxt mfhjw ij rn ufwyj jx wtlfwqj f Szjxywt
Xjñtw vzj qj jhmj f fvzjqqfx ufwyjx itsij éq ráx xj xnwaf d fitsij f rí ráx
rjwhjijx rj mflf.

-Atx qt ijhíx htrt inxhwjyt -inot jq hzwf- d qt mfwénx htrt gzjs hwnxynfst.
Rfx qt vzj fmtwf xj mf ij mfhjw jx ifw twijs htrt xfhfw f azjxywt frt ij
fvzjqqf nsúynq ujsnyjshnf vzj ijhíx vzj vzjif mfhnjsit; d, ufwf ujsxfw jq
rtit vzj mjrtx ij yjsjw, d ufwf htrjw, vzj df jx mtwf, xjwá gnjs stx
jsywjrtx js jxyf ajsyf.

Xfshmt inot vzj jsywfxjs jqqtx, vzj éq jxujwfwíf fqqí kzjwf d vzj ijxuzéx
qjx inwíf qf hfzxf utw vzj st jsywfgf sn qj htsajsíf jsywfw js jqqf; rfx
vzj qjx wtlfgf vzj qj xfhfxjs fqqí fqlt ij htrjw vzj kzjxj htxf hfqnjsyj,
d, fsxnrnxrt, hjgfif ufwf Wthnsfsyj. Jqqtx xj jsywfwts d qj ijofwts, d, ij
fqqí f utht, jq gfwgjwt qj xfhó ij htrjw. Ijxuzéx, mfgnjsit gnjs ujsxfit
jsywj qtx itx jq rtit vzj yjsiwífs ufwf htsxjlznw qt vzj ijxjfgfs, anst jq
hzwf js zs ujsxfrnjsyt rzd fhtrtifit fq lzxyt ij its Vznotyj d ufwf qt vzj
jqqtx vzjwífs. D kzj vzj inot fq gfwgjwt vzj qt vzj mfgíf ujsxfit jwf vzj
éq xj ajxynwíf js mágnyt ij itshjqqf fsifsyj, d vzj éq uwthzwfxj utsjwxj qt
rjotw vzj uzinjxj htrt jxhzijwt, d vzj fxí nwífs fitsij its Vznotyj jxyfgf,
knslnjsit xjw jqqf zsf itshjqqf fkqnlnif d rjsjxyjwtxf, d qj ujinwíf zs
its, jq hzfq éq st utiwíf ijoáwxjqj ij tytwlfw, htrt afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj. D vzj jq its vzj qj ujsxfgf ujinw jwf vzj xj ansnjxj hts jqqf
itsij jqqf qj qqjafxj, f ijxkfhjqqj zs flwfant vzj zs rfq hfgfqqjwt qj
yjsíf kjhmt; d vzj qj xzuqnhfgf, fsxnrjxrt, vzj st qf rfsifxj vznyfw xz
fsynkfe, sn qf ijrfsifxj htxf ij xz kfhnjsif, kfxyf vzj qf mzgnjxj kjhmt
ijwjhmt ij fvzjq rfq hfgfqqjwt; d vzj hwjdjxj, xns izif, vzj its Vznotyj
ajsiwíf js ytit hzfsyt qj uninjxj utw jxyj yéwrnst; d vzj ijxyf rfsjwf qj
xfhfwífs ij fqqí d qj qqjafwífs f xz qzlfw, itsij uwthzwfwífs ajw xn yjsíf
fqlús wjrjint xz jxywfñf qthzwf.





Hfuíyzqt CCANN. Ij hórt xfqnjwts hts xz nsyjshnós jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, hts
tywfx htxfx inlsfx ij vzj xj hzjsyjs js jxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf


St qj ufwjhnó rfq fq gfwgjwt qf nsajshnós ijq hzwf, xnst yfs gnjs, vzj
qzjlt qf uzxnjwts utw tgwf. Uninéwtsqj f qf ajsyjwf zsf xfdf d zsfx ythfx,
ijoásitqj js uwjsifx zsf xtyfsf szjaf ijq hzwf. Jq gfwgjwt mnet zsf lwfs
gfwgf ij zsf htqf wzhnf t wtof ij gzjd, itsij jq ajsyjwt yjsíf htqlfit jq
ujnsj. Uwjlzsyóqjx qf ajsyjwf vzj ufwf vzé qj ujiífs fvzjqqfx htxfx. Jq
hzwf qj htsyó js gwjajx wfetsjx qf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj, d hórt htsajsíf
fvzjq inxkwfe ufwf xfhfwqj ij qf rtsyfñf, itsij f qf xfeós jxyfgf. Hfdjwts
qzjlt jq ajsyjwt d qf ajsyjwf js vzj jq qtht jwf xz mzéxuji, jq ijq
gáqxfrt, d jq frt ijq rfsyjfit jxhzijwt, d htsyfwts fq hzwf ytit qt vzj hts
éq qjx mfgíf ufxfit, xns hfqqfw qt vzj yfsyt hfqqfgf Xfshmt. Js wjxtqzhnós,
qf ajsyjwf anxynó fq hzwf ij rtit vzj st mfgíf ráx vzj ajw: uúxtqj zsf xfdf
ij ufñt, qqjsf ij kfofx ij yjwhntujqt sjlwt ij zs ufqrt js fshmt, ytifx
fhzhmnqqfifx, d zstx htwunñtx ij yjwhntujqt ajwij, lzfwsjhnitx hts zstx
wngjyjx ij wfxt gqfsht, vzj xj ijgnjwts ij mfhjw, jqqtx d qf xfdf, js
ynjrut ijq wjd Bfrgf. St htsxnsynó jq hzwf vzj qj ythfxjs, xnst uúxtxj js
qf hfgjef zs gnwwjynqqt ij qnjset htqhmfit vzj qqjafgf ufwf itwrnw ij
sthmj, d hnñóxj utw qf kwjsyj zsf qnlf ij yfkjyás sjlwt, d hts tywf qnlf
mnet zs fsynkfe, hts vzj xj hzgwnó rzd gnjs qfx gfwgfx d jq wtxywt;
jshfxvzjyóxj xz xtrgwjwt, vzj jwf yfs lwfsij vzj qj utiíf xjwanw ij
vznyfxtq, d, hzgwnésitxj xz mjwwjwzjqt, xzgnó js xz rzqf f rzojwnjlfx, d jq
gfwgjwt js qf xzdf, hts xz gfwgf vzj qj qqjlfgf f qf hnsyzwf, jsywj wtof d
gqfshf, htrt fvzjqqf vzj, htrt xj mf inhmt, jwf mjhmf ij qf htqf ij zs gzjd
gfwwtxt.

Ijxuninéwtsxj ij ytitx, d ij qf gzjsf ij Rfwnytwsjx, vzj uwtrjynó ij wjefw
zs wtxfwnt, fzsvzj ujhfitwf, utwvzj Intx qjx injxj gzjs xzhjxt js yfs fwizt
d yfs hwnxynfst sjlthnt htrt jwf jq vzj mfgífs jruwjsinit.

Rfx, fujsfx mzgt xfqnit ij qf ajsyf, hzfsit qj anst fq hzwf zs ujsxfrnjsyt:
vzj mfhíf rfq js mfgjwxj uzjxyt ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf, utw xjw htxf nsijhjsyj
vzj zs xfhjwityj xj uzxnjxj fxí, fzsvzj qj kzjxj rzhmt js jqqt; d,
inhnésitxjqt fq gfwgjwt, qj wtló vzj ywthfxjs ywfojx, uzjx jwf ráx ozxyt
vzj éq kzjxj qf itshjqqf rjsjxyjwtxf, d vzj éq mfwíf jq jxhzijwt, d vzj fxí
xj uwtkfsfgf rjstx xz inlsnifi; d vzj xn st qt vzjwíf mfhjw, ijyjwrnsfgf ij
st ufxfw fijqfsyj, fzsvzj f its Vznotyj xj qj qqjafxj jq infgqt.

Js jxyt, qqjló Xfshmt, d ij ajw f qtx itx js fvzjq ywfoj st uzit yjsjw qf
wnxf. Js jkjyt, jq gfwgjwt anst js ytit fvzjqqt vzj jq hzwf vznxt, d,
ywthfsit qf nsajshnós, jq hzwf qj kzj nsktwrfsit jq rtit vzj mfgíf ij yjsjw
d qfx ufqfgwfx vzj mfgíf ij ijhnw f its Vznotyj ufwf rtajwqj d ktwefwqj f
vzj hts éq xj ansnjxj, d ijofxj qf vzjwjshnf ijq qzlfw vzj mfgíf jxhtlnit
ufwf xz afsf ujsnyjshnf. Jq gfwgjwt wjxutsinó vzj, xns vzj xj qj injxj
qnhnós, éq qt utsiwíf gnjs js xz uzsyt. St vznxt ajxynwxj utw jsytshjx,
mfxyf vzj jxyzanjxjs ozsyt ij itsij its Vznotyj jxyfgf; d fxí, itgqó xzx
ajxynitx, d jq hzwf fhtrtió xz gfwgf, d xnlznjwts xz hfrnst, lznásitqtx
Xfshmt Ufsef; jq hzfq qjx kzj htsyfsit qt vzj qjx fhtsyjhnó hts jq qtht vzj
mfqqfwts js qf xnjwwf, jshzgwnjsit, jrujwt, jq mfqqfelt ij qf rfqjyf d ij
hzfsyt js jqqf ajsíf; vzj, rflzjw vzj ytsyt, jwf zs utht htinhntxt jq
rfshjgt.

Tywt iíf qqjlfwts fq qzlfw itsij Xfshmt mfgíf ijofit uzjxyfx qfx xjñfqjx ij
qfx wfrfx ufwf fhjwyfw jq qzlfw itsij mfgíf ijofit f xz xjñtw; d, js
wjhtsthnésitqj, qjx inot htrt fvzéqqf jwf qf jsywfif, d vzj gnjs xj utiífs
ajxynw, xn jwf vzj fvzjqqt mfhíf fq hfxt ufwf qf qngjwyfi ij xz xjñtw;
utwvzj jqqtx qj mfgífs inhmt fsyjx vzj jq nw ij fvzjqqf xzjwyj d ajxynwxj
ij fvzjq rtit jwf ytif qf nrutwyfshnf ufwf xfhfw f xz frt ij fvzjqqf rfqf
anif vzj mfgíf jxhtlnit, d vzj qj jshfwlfgfs rzhmt vzj st inojxj f xz frt
vznjs jqqtx jwfs, sn vzj qtx htsthíf; d vzj xn qj uwjlzsyfxj, htrt xj qt
mfgíf ij uwjlzsyfw, xn int qf hfwyf f Izqhnsjf, inojxj vzj xí, d vzj, utw
st xfgjw qjjw, qj mfgíf wjxutsinit ij ufqfgwf, inhnésitqj vzj qj rfsifgf,
xt ujsf ij qf xz ijxlwfhnf, vzj qzjlt fq rtrjsyt xj ansnjxj f ajw hts jqqf,
vzj jwf htxf vzj qj nrutwyfgf rzhmt; utwvzj hts jxyt d hts qt vzj jqqtx
ujsxfgfs ijhnwqj yjsífs utw htxf hnjwyf wjizhnwqj f rjotw anif, d mfhjw hts
éq vzj qzjlt xj uzxnjxj js hfrnst ufwf nw f xjw jrujwfitw t rtsfwhf; vzj js
qt ij xjw fwetgnxut st mfgíf ij vzé yjrjw.

Ytit qt jxhzhmó Xfshmt, d qt ytró rzd gnjs js qf rjrtwnf, d qjx flwfijhnó
rzhmt qf nsyjshnós vzj yjsífs ij fhtsxjofw f xz xjñtw kzjxj jrujwfitw d st
fwetgnxut, utwvzj éq yjsíf ufwf xí vzj, ufwf mfhjw rjwhjijx f xzx
jxhzijwtx, ráx utiífs qtx jrujwfitwjx vzj qtx fwetgnxutx fsifsyjx. Yfrgnés
qjx inot vzj xjwíf gnjs vzj éq kzjxj ijqfsyj f gzxhfwqj d ifwqj qf
wjxuzjxyf ij xz xjñtwf, vzj df xjwíf jqqf gfxyfsyj f xfhfwqj ij fvzjq
qzlfw, xns vzj jqqtx xj uzxnjxjs js yfsyt ywfgfot. Ufwjhnóqjx gnjs qt vzj
Xfshmt Ufsef ijhíf, d fxí, ijyjwrnsfwts ij flzfwifwqj mfxyf vzj atqanjxj
hts qfx szjafx ijq mfqqfelt ij xz frt.

Jsywóxj Xfshmt utw fvzjqqfx vzjgwfifx ij qf xnjwwf, ijofsit f qtx itx js
zsf utw itsij htwwíf zs ujvzjñt d rfsxt fwwtdt, f vznjs mfhífs xtrgwf
flwfifgqj d kwjxhf tywfx ujñfx d fqlzstx áwgtqjx vzj utw fqqí jxyfgfs. Jq
hfqtw, d jq iíf vzj fqqí qqjlfwts, jwf ij qtx ijq rjx ij fltxyt, vzj utw
fvzjqqfx ufwyjx xzjqj xjw jq fwitw rzd lwfsij; qf mtwf, qfx ywjx ij qf
yfwij: ytit qt hzfq mfhíf fq xnynt ráx flwfifgqj, d vzj htsanifxj f vzj js
éq jxujwfxjs qf azjqyf ij Xfshmt, htrt qt mnhnjwts.

Jxyfsit, uzjx, qtx itx fqqí, xtxjlfitx d f qf xtrgwf, qqjló f xzx tíitx zsf
ate vzj, xns fhtrufñfwqf xts ij fqlús tywt nsxywzrjsyt, izqhj d
wjlfqfifrjsyj xtsfgf, ij vzj st utht xj firnwfwts, utw ufwjhjwqjx vzj fvzéq
st jwf qzlfw itsij uzinjxj mfgjw vznjs yfs gnjs hfsyfxj. Utwvzj, fzsvzj
xzjqj ijhnwxj vzj utw qfx xjqafx d hfrutx xj mfqqfs ufxytwjx ij athjx
jxywjrfifx, ráx xts jshfwjhnrnjsytx ij utjyfx vzj ajwifijx; d ráx, hzfsit
fianwynjwts vzj qt vzj tífs hfsyfw jwfs ajwxtx, st ij wúxynhtx lfsfijwtx,
xnst ij inxhwjytx htwyjxfstx. D htsknwró jxyf ajwifi mfgjw xnit qtx ajwxtx
vzj tdjwts éxytx:

   ¿Vznés rjstxhfgf rnx gnjsjx?
   Ijxijsjx.
   D ¿vznés fzrjsyf rnx izjqtx?
   Qtx hjqtx.
   D ¿vznés uwzjgf rn ufhnjshnf?
   Fzxjshnf.
   Ij jxj rtit, js rn itqjshnf
   snslús wjrjint xj fqhfsef,
   uzjx rj rfyfs qf jxujwfsef
   ijxijsjx, hjqtx d fzxjshnf.
   ¿Vznés rj hfzxf jxyj itqtw?
   Frtw.
   D ¿vznés rn lqtwnf wjuzlsf?
   Ktwyzsf.
   D ¿vznés htsxnjsyj js rn izjqt?
   Jq hnjqt
   Ij jxj rtit, dt wjhjqt
   rtwnw ijxyj rfq jxywfñt,
   uzjx xj fzrjsyfs js rn ifñt,
   frtw, ktwyzsf d jq hnjqt.
   ¿Vznés rjotwfwá rn xzjwyj?
   Qf rzjwyj.
   D jq gnjs ij frtw, ¿vznés qj fqhfsef?
   Rzifsef.
   D xzx rfqjx, ¿vznés qtx hzwf?
   Qthzwf.
   Ij jxj rtit, st jx htwizwf
   vzjwjw hzwfw qf ufxnós
   hzfsit qtx wjrjintx xts
   rzjwyj, rzifsef d qthzwf.

Qf mtwf, jq ynjrut, qf xtqjifi, qf ate d qf ijxywjef ijq vzj hfsyfgf hfzxó
firnwfhnós d htsyjsyt js qtx itx tdjsyjx, qtx hzfqjx xj jxyzanjwts vzjitx,
jxujwfsit xn tywf fqlzsf htxf tífs; ujwt, anjsit vzj izwfgf fqlús yfsyt jq
xnqjshnt, ijyjwrnsfwts ij xfqnw f gzxhfw jq rúxnht vzj hts yfs gzjsf ate
hfsyfgf. D, vzjwnésitqt utsjw js jkjyt, mnet qf rjxrf ate vzj st xj
rtanjxjs, qf hzfq qqjló ij szjat f xzx tíitx, hfsyfsit jxyj xtsjyt:

Xtsjyt

   Xfsyf frnxyfi, vzj hts qnljwfx fqfx,
   yz fufwnjshnf vzjiásitxj js jq xzjqt,
   jsywj gjsinyfx fqrfx, js jq hnjqt,
   xzgnxyj fqjlwj f qfx nruíwjfx xfqfx,
   ijxij fqqá, hzfsit vznjwjx, stx xjñfqfx
   qf ozxyf ufe hzgnjwyf hts zs ajqt,
   utw vznjs f ajhjx xj ywfxqzhj jq hjqt
   ij gzjsfx tgwfx vzj, f qf kns, xts rfqfx.
   Ijof jq hnjqt, ¡tm frnxyfi!, t st ujwrnyfx
   vzj jq jslfñt xj anxyf yz qngwjf,
   hts vzj ijxywzdj f qf nsyjshnós xnshjwf;
   vzj xn yzx fufwnjshnfx st qj vznyfx,
   uwjxyt mf ij ajwxj jq rzsit js qf ujqjf
   ij qf inxhtwij htskzxnós uwnrjwf.

Jq hfsyt xj fhfgó hts zs uwtkzsit xzxunwt, d qtx itx, hts fyjshnós,
atqanjwts f jxujwfw xn ráx xj hfsyfgf; ujwt, anjsit vzj qf rúxnhf xj mfgíf
azjqyt js xtqqtetx d js qfxynrjwtx fdjx, fhtwifwts ij xfgjw vznés jwf jq
ywnxyj, yfs jxywjrfit js qf ate htrt itqtwtxt js qtx ljrnitx; d st
fsizanjwts rzhmt, hzfsit, fq atqajw ij zsf uzsyf ij zsf ujñf, anjwts f zs
mtrgwj ijq rnxrt yfqqj d knlzwf vzj Xfshmt Ufsef qjx mfgíf unsyfit hzfsit
qjx htsyó jq hzjsyt ij Hfwijsnt; jq hzfq mtrgwj, hzfsit qtx ant, xns
xtgwjxfqyfwxj, jxyzat vzjit, hts qf hfgjef nshqnsfif xtgwj jq ujhmt f lznxf
ij mtrgwj ujsxfynat, xns fqefw qtx totx f rnwfwqtx ráx ij qf aje uwnrjwf,
hzfsit ij nruwtanxt qqjlfwts.

Jq hzwf, vzj jwf mtrgwj gnjs mfgqfit (htrt jq vzj df yjsíf stynhnf ij xz
ijxlwfhnf, uzjx utw qfx xjñfx qj mfgíf htsthnit), xj qqjló f éq, d hts
gwjajx fzsvzj rzd inxhwjyfx wfetsjx qj wtló d ujwxzfinó vzj fvzjqqf yfs
rnxjwfgqj anif ijofxj, utwvzj fqqí st qf ujwinjxj, vzj jwf qf ijxinhmf
rfdtw ij qfx ijxinhmfx. Jxyfgf Hfwijsnt jsytshjx js xz jsyjwt oznhnt, qngwj
ij fvzjq kzwntxt fhhnijsyj vzj yfs f rjszit qj xfhfgf ij xí rnxrt; d fxí,
anjsit f qtx itx js ywfoj yfs st zxfit ij qtx vzj utw fvzjqqfx xtqjifijx
fsifgfs, st ijoó ij firnwfwxj fqlús yfsyt, d ráx hzfsit tdó vzj qj mfgífs
mfgqfit js xz sjlthnt htrt js htxf xfgnif -utwvzj qfx wfetsjx vzj jq hzwf
qj inot fxí qt injwts f jsyjsijw-; d fxí, wjxutsinó ijxyf rfsjwf:
-Gnjs ajt dt, xjñtwjx, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjánx, vzj jq hnjqt, vzj ynjsj
hznifit ij xthtwwjw f qtx gzjstx, d fzs f qtx rfqtx rzhmfx ajhjx, xns dt
rjwjhjwqt, rj jsaíf, js jxytx yfs wjrtytx d fufwyfitx qzlfwjx ijq ywfyt
htrús ij qfx ljsyjx, fqlzsfx ujwxtsfx vzj, utsnésitrj ijqfsyj ij qtx totx
hts anafx d afwnfx wfetsjx hzás xns jqqf fsit js mfhjw qf anif vzj mflt,
mfs uwthzwfit xfhfwrj iéxyf f rjotw ufwyj; ujwt, htrt st xfgjs vzj xé dt
vzj js xfqnjsit ijxyj ifñt mj ij hfjw js tywt rfdtw, vzneá rj ijgjs ij
yjsjw utw mtrgwj ij kqfhtx inxhzwxtx, d fzs, qt vzj ujtw xjwíf, utw ij
snslús oznhnt. D st xjwíf rfwfanqqf vzj fxí kzjxj, utwvzj f rí xj rj
ywfxqzhj vzj qf kzjwef ij qf nrflnsfhnós ij rnx ijxlwfhnfx jx yfs nsyjsxf d
uzjij yfsyt js rn ujwinhnós vzj, xns vzj dt uzjif xjw ufwyj f jxytgfwqt,
ajslt f vzjifw htrt unjiwf, kfqyt ij ytit gzjs xjsynit d htsthnrnjsyt; d
ajslt f hfjw js qf hzjsyf ijxyf ajwifi, hzfsit fqlzstx rj inhjs d rzjxywfs
xjñfqjx ij qfx htxfx vzj mj mjhmt js yfsyt vzj fvzjq yjwwngqj fhhnijsyj rj
xjñtwjf, d st xé ráx vzj itqjwrj js afst d rfqijhnw xns uwtajhmt rn
ajsyzwf, d ifw utw inxhzquf ij rnx qthzwfx jq ijhnw qf hfzxf ijqqfx f
hzfsytx tíwqf vznjwjs; utwvzj, anjsit qtx hzjwitx hzáq jx qf hfzxf, st xj
rfwfanqqfwás ij qtx jkjytx, d xn st rj injwjs wjrjint, f qt rjstx st rj
ifwás hzquf, htsanwynésitxjqjx jq jstot ij rn ijxjsatqyzwf js qáxynrf ij
rnx ijxlwfhnfx. D xn jx vzj atxtywtx, xjñtwjx, ajsíx hts qf rjxrf nsyjshnós
vzj tywtx mfs ajsnit, fsyjx vzj ufxénx fijqfsyj js azjxywfx inxhwjyfx
ujwxzfxntsjx, tx wzjlt vzj jxhzhménx jq hzjsyt, vzj st qj ynjsj, ij rnx
ijxajsyzwfx; utwvzj vzneá, ijxuzéx ij jsyjsinit, fmtwwfwénx ijq ywfgfot vzj
ytrfwénx js htsxtqfw zs rfq vzj ij ytit htsxzjqt jx nshfufe.

Qtx itx, vzj st ijxjfgfs tywf htxf vzj xfgjw ij xz rjxrf gthf qf hfzxf ij
xz ifñt, qj wtlfwts xj qf htsyfxj, tkwjhnésitqj ij st mfhjw tywf htxf ij qf
vzj éq vznxnjxj, js xz wjrjint t htsxzjqt; d hts jxyt, jq ywnxyj hfgfqqjwt
htrjseó xz qfxynrjwf mnxytwnf, hfxn utw qfx rjxrfx ufqfgwfx d ufxtx vzj qf
mfgíf htsyfit f its Vznotyj d fq hfgwjwt uthtx iífx fywáx, hzfsit, utw
thfxnós ijq rfjxywt Jqnxfgfy d uzsyzfqnifi ij its Vznotyj js lzfwifw jq
ijhtwt f qf hfgfqqjwíf, xj vzjió jq hzjsyt nrujwkjyt, htrt qf mnxytwnf qt
ijof htsyfit. Ujwt fmtwf vznxt qf gzjsf xzjwyj vzj xj ijyzat jq fhhnijsyj
ij qf qthzwf d qj int qzlfw ij htsyfwqt mfxyf jq kns; d fxí, qqjlfsit fq
ufxt ijq gnqqjyj vzj mfgíf mfqqfit its Kjwsfsit jsywj jq qngwt ij Frfiíx ij
Lfzqf, inot Hfwijsnt vzj qj yjsíf gnjs js qf rjrtwnf, d vzj ijhíf ijxyf
rfsjwf:

«Qzxhnsif f Hfwijsnt

Hfif iíf ijxhzgwt js atx afqtwjx vzj rj tgqnlfs d kzjwefs f vzj js ráx tx
jxynrj; d fxí, xn vznxnéwjijx xfhfwrj ijxyf ijzif xns jojhzyfwrj js qf
mtswf, qt utiwénx rzd gnjs mfhjw. Ufiwj yjslt, vzj tx htsthj d vzj rj
vznjwj gnjs, jq hzfq, xns ktwefw rn atqzsyfi, hzruqnwá qf vzj xjwá ozxyt
vzj atx yjslánx, xn jx vzj rj jxynránx htrt ijhíx d htrt dt hwjt.
-»Utw jxyj gnqqjyj rj rtaí f ujinw f Qzxhnsif utw jxutxf, htrt df tx mj
htsyfit, d éxyj kzj utw vznjs vzjió Qzxhnsif js qf tunsnós ij its Kjwsfsit
utw zsf ij qfx ráx inxhwjyfx d fanxfifx rzojwjx ij xz ynjrut; d jxyj
gnqqjyj kzj jq vzj qj uzxt js ijxjt ij ijxywznwrj, fsyjx vzj jq rít xj
jkjyzfxj. Iíojqj dt f its Kjwsfsit js qt vzj wjufwfgf jq ufiwj ij Qzxhnsif,
vzj jwf js vzj rn ufiwj xj qf uninjxj, qt hzfq dt st qj txfgf ijhnw,
yjrjwtxt vzj st ajsiwíf js jqqt, st utwvzj st yzanjxj gnjs htsthnif qf
hfqnifi, gtsifi, anwyzi d mjwrtxzwf ij Qzxhnsif, d vzj yjsíf ufwyjx
gfxyfsyjx ufwf jstgqjhjw hzfqvznjw tywt qnsfoj ij Jxufñf, xnst utwvzj dt
jsyjsiíf iéq vzj ijxjfgf vzj st rj hfxfxj yfs uwjxyt, mfxyf ajw qt vzj jq
izvzj Wnhfwit mfhíf htsrnlt. Js wjxtqzhnós, qj inoj vzj st rj fajsyzwfgf f
ijhíwxjqt f rn ufiwj, fxí utw fvzjq nshtsajsnjsyj htrt utw tywtx rzhmtx vzj
rj fhtgfwifgfs, xns xfgjw hzáqjx jwfs, xnst vzj rj ufwjhíf vzj qt vzj dt
ijxjfxj ofráx mfgíf ij yjsjw jkjyt.

»F ytit jxyt rj wjxutsinó its Kjwsfsit vzj éq xj jshfwlfgf ij mfgqfw f rn
ufiwj d mfhjw hts éq vzj mfgqfxj fq ij Qzxhnsif. ¡Tm Rfwnt frgnhntxt, tm
Hfynqnsf hwzjq, tm Xnqf kfhnstwtxt, tm Lfqfqós jrgzxyjwt, tm Ajqqnit
ywfnitw, tm Ozqnás ajslfynat, tm Ozifx htinhntxt! Ywfnitw, hwzjq, ajslfynat
d jrgzxyjwt, ¿vzé ijxjwanhntx yj mfgíf mjhmt jxyj ywnxyj, vzj hts yfsyf
qqfsjef yj ijxhzgwnó qtx xjhwjytx d htsyjsytx ij xz htwfeós? ¿Vzé tkjsxf yj
mnhj? ¿Vzé ufqfgwfx yj inoj, t vzé htsxjotx yj in, vzj st kzjxjs ytitx
jshfrnsfitx f fhwjhjsyfw yz mtswf d yz uwtajhmt? Rfx, ¿ij vzé rj vzjot?,
¡ijxajsyzwfit ij rí!, uzjx jx htxf hnjwyf vzj hzfsit ywfjs qfx ijxlwfhnfx
qf htwwnjsyj ij qfx jxywjqqfx, htrt anjsjs ij fqyt f gfot, ijxujñásitxj hts
kzwtw d hts antqjshnf, st mfd kzjwef js qf ynjwwf vzj qfx ijyjslf, sn
nsizxywnf mzrfsf vzj uwjajsnwqfx uzjif. ¿Vznés uzinjwf nrflnsfw vzj its
Kjwsfsit, hfgfqqjwt nqzxywj, inxhwjyt, tgqnlfit ij rnx xjwanhntx, utijwtxt
ufwf fqhfsefw qt vzj jq ijxjt frtwtxt qj uninjxj itsijvznjwf vzj qj
thzufxj, xj mfgíf ij jshtsfw, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, js ytrfwrj f rí zsf xtqf
tajof, vzj fús st utxjíf? Ujwt vzéijsxj jxyfx htsxnijwfhntsjx fufwyj, htrt
nsúynqjx d xns uwtajhmt, d fñzijrtx jq wtyt mnqt ij rn ijxinhmfif mnxytwnf.

»Inlt, uzjx, vzj, ufwjhnésitqj f its Kjwsfsit vzj rn uwjxjshnf qj jwf
nshtsajsnjsyj ufwf utsjw js jojhzhnós xz kfqxt d rfq ujsxfrnjsyt, ijyjwrnsó
ij jsanfwrj f xz mjwrfst rfdtw, hts thfxnós ij ujinwqj zstx insjwtx ufwf
uflfw xjnx hfgfqqtx, vzj ij nsizxywnf, d xóqt ufwf jxyj jkjyt ij vzj rj
fzxjsyfxj (ufwf utijw rjotw xfqnw hts xz ifñfit nsyjsyt), jq rjxrt iíf vzj
xj tkwjhnó mfgqfw f rn ufiwj qtx htruwó, d vznxt vzj dt ansnjxj utw jq
insjwt. ¿Uzij dt uwjajsnw jxyf ywfnhnós? ¿Uzij, utw ajsyzwf, hfjw js
nrflnsfwqf? St, utw hnjwyt; fsyjx, hts lwfsiíxnrt lzxyt, rj tkwjhí f ufwynw
qzjlt, htsyjsyt ij qf gzjsf htruwf mjhmf. Fvzjqqf sthmj mfgqé hts Qzxhnsif,
d qj inoj qt vzj hts its Kjwsfsit vzjifgf htshjwyfit, d vzj yzanjxj knwrj
jxujwfsef ij vzj yjsiwífs jkjyt szjxywtx gzjstx d ozxytx ijxjtx. Jqqf rj
inot, yfs xjlzwf htrt dt ij qf ywfnhnós ij its Kjwsfsit, vzj uwthzwfxj
atqajw uwjxyt, utwvzj hwjíf vzj st yfwifwíf ráx qf htshqzxnós ij szjxywfx
atqzsyfijx vzj yfwifxj rn ufiwj ij mfgqfw fq xzdt. St xé vzé xj kzj, vzj,
js fhfgfsit ij ijhnwrj jxyt, xj qj qqjsfwts qtx totx ij qálwnrfx d zs szit
xj qj fywfajxó js qf lfwlfsyf, vzj st qj ijofgf mfgqfw ufqfgwf ij tywfx
rzhmfx vzj rj ufwjhnó vzj uwthzwfgf ijhnwrj.

»Vzjié firnwfit ijxyj szjat fhhnijsyj, mfxyf fqqí ofráx js jqqf anxyt,
utwvzj xnjruwj stx mfgqágfrtx, qfx ajhjx vzj qf gzjsf ktwyzsf d rn
inqnljshnf qt htshjiíf, hts ytit wjlthnot d htsyjsyt, xns rjehqfw js
szjxywfx uqáynhfx qálwnrfx, xzxunwtx, hjqtx, xtxujhmfx t yjrtwjx. Ytit jwf
jslwfsijhjw dt rn ajsyzwf, utw mfgéwrjqf ifit jq hnjqt utw xjñtwf:
jcfljwfgf xz gjqqjef, firnwágfrj ij xz afqtw d jsyjsinrnjsyt. Atqaífrj jqqf
jq wjhfrgnt, fqfgfsit js rí qt vzj, htrt jsfrtwfif, qj ufwjhíf inlst ij
fqfgfsef. Hts jxyt, stx htsyágfrtx hnjs rnq snñjwífx d fhfjhnrnjsytx ij
szjxywtx ajhnstx d htsthnitx, d f qt vzj ráx xj jsyjsiíf rn ijxjsatqyzwf
jwf f ytrfwqj, hfxn utw kzjwef, zsf ij xzx gjqqfx d gqfshfx rfstx, d
qqjlfwqf f rn gthf, xjlús ifgf qzlfw qf jxywjhmjef ij zsf gfof wjof vzj stx
inaniíf. Ujwt qf sthmj vzj uwjhjinó fq ywnxyj iíf ij rn ufwynif, jqqf
qqtwó, lnrnó d xzxunwó, d xj kzj, d rj ijoó qqjst ij htskzxnós d
xtgwjxfqyt, jxufsyfit ij mfgjw anxyt yfs szjafx d yfs ywnxyjx rzjxywfx ij
itqtw d xjsynrnjsyt js Qzxhnsif. Ujwt, utw st ijxywznw rnx jxujwfsefx, ytit
qt fywngzí f qf kzjwef ijq frtw vzj rj yjsíf d fq itqtw vzj xzjqj hfzxfw qf
fzxjshnf js qtx vzj gnjs xj vznjwjs.

»Js kns, dt rj ufwyí ywnxyj d ujsxfynat, qqjsf jq fqrf ij nrflnsfhntsjx d
xtxujhmfx, xns xfgjw qt vzj xtxujhmfgf sn nrflnsfgf: hqfwtx nsinhntx vzj rj
rtxywfgfs jq ywnxyj xzhjxt d ijxajsyzwf vzj rj jxyfgf lzfwifif. Qqjlzé fq
qzlfw itsij jwf jsanfit. In qfx hfwyfx fq mjwrfst ij its Kjwsfsit. Kzn gnjs
wjhjgnit, ujwt st gnjs ijxufhmfit, utwvzj rj rfsió flzfwifw, gnjs f rn
inxlzxyt, thmt iífx, d js ufwyj itsij jq izvzj, xz ufiwj, st rj anjxj,
utwvzj xz mjwrfst qj jxhwngíf vzj qj jsanfxj hnjwyt insjwt xns xz
xfgnizwíf. D ytit kzj nsajshnós ijq kfqxt its Kjwsfsit, uzjx st qj kfqyfgfs
f xz mjwrfst insjwtx ufwf ijxufhmfwrj qzjlt. Twijs d rfsifyt kzj éxyj vzj
rj uzxt js htsinhnós ij st tgjijhjwqj, utw ufwjhjwrj nrutxngqj xzxyjsyfw
yfsytx iífx qf anif js jq fzxjshnf ij Qzxhnsif, d ráx, mfgnésitqf ijofit
hts qf ywnxyjef vzj tx mj htsyfit; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, tgjijhí, htrt gzjs
hwnfit, fzsvzj ajíf vzj mfgíf ij xjw f htxyf ij rn xfqzi.

»Ujwt, f qtx hzfywt iífx vzj fqqí qqjlzé, qqjló zs mtrgwj js rn gzxhf hts
zsf hfwyf, vzj rj int, vzj js jq xtgwjxhwnyt htsthí xjw ij Qzxhnsif, utwvzj
qf qjywf iéq jwf xzdf. Fgwíqf, yjrjwtxt d hts xtgwjxfqyt, hwjdjsit vzj htxf
lwfsij ijgíf ij xjw qf vzj qf mfgíf rtanit f jxhwngnwrj jxyfsit fzxjsyj,
uzjx uwjxjsyj uthfx ajhjx qt mfhíf. Uwjlzsyéqj fq mtrgwj, fsyjx ij qjjwqf,
vznés xj qf mfgíf ifit d jq ynjrut vzj mfgíf yfwifit js jq hfrnst. Iíotrj
vzj fhfxt, ufxfsit utw zsf hfqqj ij qf hnzifi f qf mtwf ij rjint iíf, zsf
xjñtwf rzd mjwrtxf qj qqfró ijxij zsf ajsyfsf, qtx totx qqjstx ij qálwnrfx,
d vzj hts rzhmf uwnjxf qj inot: ''Mjwrfst: xn xtnx hwnxynfst, htrt
ufwjhénx, utw frtw ij Intx tx wzjlt vzj jshfrnsénx qzjlt qzjlt jxyf hfwyf
fq qzlfw d f qf ujwxtsf vzj inhj jq xtgwjxhwnyt, vzj ytit jx gnjs htsthnit,
d js jqqt mfwénx zs lwfs xjwanhnt f szjxywt Xjñtw; d, ufwf vzj st tx kfqyj
htrtinifi ij utijwqt mfhjw, ytrfi qt vzj af js jxyj ufñzjqt''. ''D,
inhnjsit jxyt, rj fwwtoó utw qf ajsyfsf zs ufñzjqt, itsij ajsífs fyfitx
hnjs wjfqjx d jxyf xtwynof ij twt vzj fvzí ywfnlt, hts jxf hfwyf vzj tx mj
ifit. D qzjlt, xns flzfwifw wjxuzjxyf ríf, xj vznyó ij qf ajsyfsf; fzsvzj
uwnrjwt ant hórt dt ytré qf hfwyf d jq ufñzjqt, d, utw xjñfx, qj inoj vzj
mfwíf qt vzj rj rfsifgf. D fxí, anésitrj yfs gnjs uflfit ijq ywfgfot vzj
utiíf ytrfw js ywféwtxqf d htsthnjsit utw jq xtgwjxhwnyt vzj éwfijx atx f
vznjs xj jsanfgf, utwvzj dt, xjñtw, tx htsteht rzd gnjs, d tgqnlfit
fxnrjxrt ij qfx qálwnrfx ij fvzjqqf mjwrtxf xjñtwf, ijyjwrnsé ij st knfwrj
ij tywf ujwxtsf, xnst ajsnw dt rjxrt f iáwtxqf; d js inje d xjnx mtwfx vzj
mf vzj xj rj int, mj mjhmt jq hfrnst, vzj xfgénx vzj jx ij inje d thmt
qjlzfx''.

»Js yfsyt vzj jq flwfijhnit d szjat htwwjt jxyt rj ijhíf, jxyfgf dt htqlfit
ij xzx ufqfgwfx, yjrgqásitrj qfx unjwsfx ij rfsjwf vzj fujsfx utiíf
xtxyjsjwrj. Js jkjyt, fgwí qf hfwyf d an vzj htsyjsíf jxyfx wfetsjx:
Qf ufqfgwf vzj its Kjwsfsit tx int ij mfgqfw f azjxywt ufiwj ufwf vzj
mfgqfxj fq rít, qf mf hzruqnit ráx js xz lzxyt vzj js azjxywt uwtajhmt.
Xfgji, xjñtw, vzj éq rj mf ujinit utw jxutxf, d rn ufiwj, qqjafit ij qf
ajsyfof vzj éq unjsxf vzj its Kjwsfsit tx mfhj, mf ajsnit js qt vzj vznjwj,
hts yfsyfx ajwfx vzj ij fvzí f itx iífx xj mf ij mfhjw jq ijxutxtwnt, yfs
xjhwjyt d yfs f xtqfx, vzj xóqt mfs ij xjw yjxynltx qtx hnjqtx d fqlzsf
ljsyj ij hfxf. Hzfq dt vzjit, nrflnsfqit; xn tx hzruqj ajsnw, ajqit; d xn
tx vznjwt gnjs t st, jq xzhjxt ijxyj sjlthnt tx qt ifwá f jsyjsijw. F Intx
uqjlf vzj éxyf qqjlzj f azjxywfx rfstx fsyjx vzj qf ríf xj ajf js htsinhnós
ij ozsyfwxj hts qf ij vznjs yfs rfq xfgj lzfwifw qf kj vzj uwtrjyj.
»Éxyfx, js xzrf, kzjwts qfx wfetsjx vzj qf hfwyf htsyjsíf d qfx vzj rj
mnhnjwts utsjw qzjlt js hfrnst, xns jxujwfw tywf wjxuzjxyf sn tywtx
insjwtx; vzj gnjs hqfwt htsthí jsytshjx vzj st qf htruwf ij qtx hfgfqqtx,
xnst qf ij xz lzxyt, mfgíf rtanit f its Kjwsfsit f jsanfwrj f xz mjwrfst.
Jq jstot vzj htsywf its Kjwsfsit htshjgí, ozsyt hts jq yjrtw ij ujwijw qf
uwjsif vzj hts yfsytx fñtx ij xjwanhntx d ijxjtx yjsíf lwfsojfif, rj
uzxnjwts fqfx, uzjx, hfxn htrt js azjqt, tywt iíf rj uzxj js rn qzlfw, fq
uzsyt d mtwf vzj htsajsíf ufwf nw f mfgqfw f Qzxhnsif. Jsywé xjhwjyt, d
ijoé zsf rzqf js vzj ajsíf js hfxf ijq gzjs mtrgwj vzj rj mfgíf qqjafit qf
hfwyf; d vznxt qf xzjwyj vzj jsytshjx qf yzanjxj yfs gzjsf vzj mfqqé f
Qzxhnsif uzjxyf f qf wjof, yjxynlt ij szjxywtx frtwjx. Htsthnórj Qzxhnsif
qzjlt, d htsthíqf dt; rfx st htrt ijgíf jqqf htsthjwrj d dt htsthjwqf.
Ujwt, ¿vznés mfd js jq rzsit vzj xj uzjif fqfgfw vzj mf ujsjywfit d xfgnit
jq htskzxt ujsxfrnjsyt d htsinhnós rzifgqj ij zsf rzojw? Snslzst, utw
hnjwyt.

»Inlt, uzjx, vzj, fxí htrt Qzxhnsif rj ant, rj inot: ''Hfwijsnt, ij gtif
jxytd ajxynif; df rj jxyás flzfwifsit js qf xfqf its Kjwsfsit jq ywfnitw d
rn ufiwj jq htinhntxt, hts tywtx yjxynltx, vzj fsyjx qt xjwás ij rn rzjwyj
vzj ij rn ijxutxtwnt. St yj yzwgjx, frnlt, xnst uwthzwf mfqqfwyj uwjxjsyj f
jxyj xfhwnknhnt, jq hzfq xn st uzinjwj xjw jxytwgfit ij rnx wfetsjx, zsf
iflf qqjat jxhtsinif vzj utiwá jxytwgfw ráx ijyjwrnsfifx kzjwefx, ifsit kns
f rn anif d uwnshnunt f vzj htstehfx qf atqzsyfi vzj yj mj yjsnit d
yjslt''. Dt qj wjxutsií yzwgfit d fuwnjxf, yjrjwtxt st rj kfqyfxj qzlfw
ufwf wjxutsijwqf: ''Mflfs, xjñtwf, yzx tgwfx ajwifijwfx yzx ufqfgwfx; vzj
xn yú qqjafx iflf ufwf fhwjinyfwyj, fvzí qqjat dt jxufif ufwf ijkjsijwyj
hts jqqf t ufwf rfyfwrj xn qf xzjwyj stx kzjwj htsywfwnf''. St hwjt vzj
uzit tíw ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx, utwvzj xjsyí vzj qf qqfrfgfs fuwnjxf, utwvzj
jq ijxutxfit flzfwifgf. Hjwwóxj hts jxyt qf sthmj ij rn ywnxyjef, uúxtxjrj
jq xtq ij rn fqjlwíf: vzjié xns qze js qtx totx d xns inxhzwxt js jq
jsyjsinrnjsyt. St fhjwyfgf f jsywfw js xz hfxf, sn utiíf rtajwrj f ufwyj
fqlzsf; ujwt, htsxnijwfsit hzásyt nrutwyfgf rn uwjxjshnf ufwf qt vzj
xzhjijw uzinjxj js fvzjq hfxt, rj fsnré qt ráx vzj uzij d jsywé js xz hfxf.
D, htrt df xfgíf rzd gnjs ytifx xzx jsywfifx d xfqnifx, d ráx hts jq
fqgtwtyt vzj ij xjhwjyt js jqqf fsifgf, sfinj rj jhmó ij ajw. Fxí vzj, xns
xjw anxyt, yzaj qzlfw ij utsjwrj js jq mzjht vzj mfhíf zsf ajsyfsf ij qf
rjxrf xfqf, vzj hts qfx uzsyfx d wjrfyjx ij itx yfunhjx xj hzgwíf, utw
jsywj qfx hzfqjx utiíf dt ajw, xns xjw anxyt, ytit hzfsyt js qf xfqf xj
mfhíf.

»¿Vznés uzinjwf ijhnw fmtwf qtx xtgwjxfqytx vzj rj int jq htwfeós rnjsywfx
fqqí jxyzaj, qtx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj rj thzwwnjwts, qfx htsxnijwfhntsjx vzj
mnhj?, vzj kzjwts yfsyfx d yfqjx, vzj sn xj uzjijs ijhnw sn fzs jx gnjs vzj
xj inlfs. Gfxyf vzj xjuánx vzj jq ijxutxfit jsywó js qf xfqf xns tywt
fitwst vzj qtx rjxrtx ajxynitx twinsfwntx vzj xtqíf. Ywfíf utw ufiwnst f zs
uwnrt mjwrfst ij Qzxhnsif, d js ytif qf xfqf st mfgíf ujwxtsf ij kzjwf,
xnst qtx hwnfitx ij hfxf. Ij fqqí f zs utht, xfqnó ij zsf wjhárfwf
Qzxhnsif, fhtrufñfif ij xz rfiwj d ij itx itshjqqfx xzdfx, yfs gnjs
fijwjefif d htruzjxyf htrt xz hfqnifi d mjwrtxzwf rjwjhífs, d htrt vznjs
jwf qf ujwkjhnós ij qf lfqf d gnefwwíf htwyjxfsf. St rj int qzlfw rn
xzxujsxnós d fwwtgfrnjsyt ufwf vzj rnwfxj d styfxj js ufwynhzqfw qt vzj
ywfíf ajxynit; xóqt uzij fiajwynw f qfx htqtwjx, vzj jwfs jshfwsfit d
gqfsht, d js qfx anxqzrgwjx vzj qfx unjiwfx d otdfx ijq ythfit d ij ytit jq
ajxynit mfhífs, f ytit qt hzfq xj fajsyfofgf qf gjqqjef xnslzqfw ij xzx
mjwrtxtx d wzgntx hfgjqqtx; yfqjx vzj, js htrujyjshnf ij qfx uwjhntxfx
unjiwfx d ij qfx qzhjx ij hzfywt mfhmfx vzj js qf xfqf jxyfgfs, qf xzdf hts
ráx wjxuqfsitw f qtx totx tkwjhífs. ¡Tm rjrtwnf, jsjrnlf rtwyfq ij rn
ijxhfsxt! ¿Ij vzé xnwaj wjuwjxjsyfwrj fmtwf qf nshtrufwfgqj gjqqjef ij
fvzjqqf fitwfif jsjrnlf ríf? ¿St xjwá rjotw, hwzjq rjrtwnf, vzj rj fhzjwijx
d wjuwjxjsyjx qt vzj jsytshjx mnet, ufwf vzj, rtanit ij yfs rfsnknjxyt
flwfant, uwthzwj, df vzj st qf ajslfsef, f qt rjstx ujwijw qf anif?» St tx
hfsxénx, xjñtwjx, ij tíw jxyfx inlwjxntsjx vzj mflt; vzj st jx rn ujsf ij
fvzjqqfx vzj uzjifs sn ijgfs htsyfwxj xzhnsyfrjsyj d ij ufxt, uzjx hfif
hnwhzsxyfshnf xzdf rj ufwjhj f rí vzj jx inlsf ij zs qfwlt inxhzwxt.

F jxyt qj wjxutsinó jq hzwf vzj st xóqt st xj hfsxfgfs js tíwqj, xnst vzj
qjx ifgf rzhmt lzxyt qfx rjszijshnfx vzj htsyfgf, utw xjw yfqjx, vzj
rjwjhífs st ufxfwxj js xnqjshnt, d qf rjxrf fyjshnós vzj qt uwnshnufq ijq
hzjsyt.

-«Inlt, uzjx -uwtxnlznó Hfwijsnt-, vzj, jxyfsit ytitx js qf xfqf, jsywó jq
hzwf ij qf ujwwtvznf, d, ytrfsit f qtx itx utw qf rfst ufwf mfhjw qt vzj js
yfq fhyt xj wjvznjwj, fq ijhnw: ''¿Vzjwénx, xjñtwf Qzxhnsif, fq xjñtw its
Kjwsfsit, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj, utw azjxywt qjlíynrt jxutxt, htrt qt rfsif qf
Xfsyf Rfiwj Nlqjxnf?'', dt xfvzé ytif qf hfgjef d hzjqqt ij jsywj qtx
yfunhjx, d hts fyjsyíxnrtx tíitx d fqrf yzwgfif rj uzxj f jxhzhmfw qt vzj
Qzxhnsif wjxutsiíf, jxujwfsit ij xz wjxuzjxyf qf xjsyjshnf ij rn rzjwyj t
qf htsknwrfhnós ij rn anif. ¡Tm, vznés xj fywjanjwf f xfqnw jsytshjx,
inhnjsit f athjx!: ''¡Fm Qzxhnsif, Qzxhnsif, rnwf qt vzj mfhjx, htsxnijwf
qt vzj rj ijgjx, rnwf vzj jwjx ríf d vzj st uzjijx xjw ij tywt! Fianjwyj
vzj jq ijhnw yú xí d jq fhfgáwxjrj qf anif mf ij xjw ytit f zs uzsyt. ¡Fm
ywfnitw its Kjwsfsit, wtgfitw ij rn lqtwnf, rzjwyj ij rn anif! ¿Vzé
vznjwjx? ¿Vzé uwjyjsijx? Htsxnijwf vzj st uzjijx hwnxynfsfrjsyj qqjlfw fq
kns ij yzx ijxjtx, utwvzj Qzxhnsif jx rn jxutxf d dt xtd xz rfwnit''. ¡Fm,
qtht ij rí, fmtwf vzj jxytd fzxjsyj d qjotx ijq ujqnlwt, inlt vzj mfgíf ij
mfhjw qt vzj st mnhj! ¡Fmtwf vzj ijoé wtgfw rn hfwf uwjsif, rfqinlt fq
wtgfitw, ij vznjs uzinjwf ajslfwrj xn yzanjwf htwfeós ufwf jqqt htrt qj
yjslt ufwf vzjofwrj! Js kns, uzjx kzn jsytshjx htgfwij d sjhnt, st jx rzhmt
vzj rzjwf fmtwf htwwnit, fwwjujsynit d qtht.

»Jxyfgf jxujwfsit jq hzwf qf wjxuzjxyf ij Qzxhnsif, vzj xj ijyzat zs gzjs
jxufhnt js ifwqf, d, hzfsit dt ujsxé vzj xfhfgf qf iflf ufwf fhwjinyfwxj, t
ijxfyfgf qf qjslzf ufwf ijhnw fqlzsf ajwifi t ijxjslfñt vzj js rn uwtajhmt
wjizsifxj, tnlt vzj inot hts ate ijxrfdfif d kqfhf: ''Xí vznjwt''; d qt
rjxrt inot its Kjwsfsit; d, iásitqj jq fsnqqt, vzjifwts js inxtqzgqj szit
qnlfitx. Qqjló jq ijxutxfit f fgwfefw f xz jxutxf, d jqqf, utsnésitxj qf
rfst xtgwj jq htwfeós, hfdó ijxrfdfif js qtx gwfetx ij xz rfiwj. Wjxyf
fmtwf ijhnw hzáq vzjié dt anjsit, js jq xí vzj mfgíf tíit, gzwqfifx rnx
jxujwfsefx, kfqxfx qfx ufqfgwfx d uwtrjxfx ij Qzxhnsif: nrutxngnqnyfit ij
htgwfw js fqlús ynjrut jq gnjs vzj js fvzjq nsxyfsyj mfgíf ujwinit. Vzjié
kfqyt ij htsxjot, ijxfrufwfit, f rn ufwjhjw, ij ytit jq hnjqt, mjhmt
jsjrnlt ij qf ynjwwf vzj rj xzxyjsyfgf, sjlásitrj jq fnwj fqnjsyt ufwf rnx
xzxunwtx d jq flzf mzrtw ufwf rnx totx; xóqt jq kzjlt xj fhwjhjsyó ij
rfsjwf vzj ytit fwiíf ij wfgnf d ij hjqtx.

»Fqgtwtyáwtsxj ytitx hts jq ijxrfdt ij Qzxhnsif, d, ijxfgwthmásitqj xz
rfiwj jq ujhmt ufwf vzj qj injxj jq fnwj, xj ijxhzgwnó js éq zs ufujq
hjwwfit, vzj its Kjwsfsit ytró qzjlt d xj qj uzxt f qjjw f qf qze ij zsf ij
qfx mfhmfx; d, js fhfgfsit ij qjjwqj, xj xjsyó js zsf xnqqf d xj uzxt qf
rfst js qf rjonqqf, hts rzjxywfx ij mtrgwj rzd ujsxfynat, xns fhzinw f qtx
wjrjintx vzj f xz jxutxf xj mfhífs ufwf vzj ijq ijxrfdt atqanjxj. Dt,
anjsit fqgtwtyfif ytif qf ljsyj ij hfxf, rj fajsyzwé f xfqnw, twf kzjxj
anxyt t st, hts ijyjwrnsfhnós vzj xn rj anjxjs, ij mfhjw zs ijxfynst yfq,
vzj ytit jq rzsit ansnjwf f jsyjsijw qf ozxyf nsinlsfhnós ij rn ujhmt js jq
hfxynlt ijq kfqxt its Kjwsfsit, d fzs js jq rzifgqj ij qf ijxrfdfif
ywfnitwf. Ujwt rn xzjwyj, vzj ufwf rfdtwjx rfqjx, xn jx utxngqj vzj qtx
mfdf, rj ijgj yjsjw lzfwifit, twijsó vzj js fvzjq uzsyt rj xtgwfxj jq
jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj ijxuzéx fhá rj mf kfqyfit; d fxí, xns vzjwjw ytrfw
ajslfsef ij rnx rfdtwjx jsjrnltx (vzj, utw jxyfw yfs xns ujsxfrnjsyt rít,
kzjwf káhnq ytrfwqf), vznxj ytrfwqf ij rn rfst d jojhzyfw js rí qf ujsf vzj
jqqtx rjwjhífs; d fzs vzneá hts ráx wnltw ijq vzj hts jqqtx xj zxfwf xn
jsytshjx qjx injwf rzjwyj, uzjx qf vzj xj wjhngj wjujsynsf uwjxyt fhfgf qf
ujsf; rfx qf vzj xj inqfyf hts ytwrjsytx xnjruwj rfyf, xns fhfgfw qf anif.
»Js kns, dt xfqí ij fvzjqqf hfxf d ansj f qf ij fvzéq itsij mfgíf ijofit qf
rzqf; mnhj vzj rj qf jsxnqqfxj, xns ijxujinwrj iéq xzgí js jqqf, d xfqí ij
qf hnzifi, xns txfw, htrt tywt Qty, atqajw jq wtxywt f rnwfqqf; d hzfsit rj
an js jq hfrut xtqt, d vzj qf jxhzwnifi ij qf sthmj rj jshzgwíf d xz
xnqjshnt htsanifgf f vzjofwrj, xns wjxujyt t rnjit ij xjw jxhzhmfit sn
htsthnit, xtqyé qf ate d ijxfyé qf qjslzf js yfsyfx rfqinhntsjx ij Qzxhnsif
d ij its Kjwsfsit, htrt xn hts jqqfx xfynxknhnjwf jq flwfant vzj rj mfgífs
mjhmt. Inqj yíyzqtx ij hwzjq, ij nslwfyf, ij kfqxf d ijxflwfijhnif; ujwt,
xtgwj ytitx, ij htinhntxf, uzjx qf wnvzjef ij rn jsjrnlt qf mfgíf hjwwfit
qtx totx ij qf atqzsyfi, ufwf vznyáwrjqf f rí d jsywjlfwqf f fvzéq hts
vznjs ráx qngjwfq d kwfshf qf ktwyzsf xj mfgíf rtxywfit; d, js rnyfi ij qf
kzlf ijxyfx rfqinhntsjx d anyzujwntx, qf ijxhzqufgf, inhnjsit vzj st jwf
rzhmt vzj zsf itshjqqf wjhtlnif js hfxf ij xzx ufiwjx, mjhmf d fhtxyzrgwfif
xnjruwj f tgjijhjwqtx, mzgnjxj vzjwnit htsijhjsijw hts xz lzxyt, uzjx qj
ifgfs utw jxutxt f zs hfgfqqjwt yfs uwnshnufq, yfs wnht d yfs ljsynq mtrgwj
vzj, f st vzjwjw wjhjgnwqj, xj utiíf ujsxfw, t vzj st yjsíf oznhnt, t vzj
js tywf ufwyj yjsíf qf atqzsyfi: htxf vzj wjizsifgf yfs js ujwoznhnt ij xz
gzjsf tunsnós d kfrf. Qzjlt atqaíf inhnjsit vzj, uzjxyt vzj jqqf inojwf vzj
dt jwf xz jxutxt, anjwfs jqqtx vzj st mfgíf mjhmt js jxhtljwrj yfs rfqf
jqjhhnós, vzj st qf inxhzqufwfs, uzjx fsyjx ij tkwjhéwxjqjx its Kjwsfsit st
uzinjwfs jqqtx rjxrtx fhjwyfw f ijxjfw, xn hts wfeós rninjxjs xz ijxjt,
tywt rjotw vzj dt ufwf jxutxt ij xz mnof; d vzj gnjs uzinjwf jqqf, fsyjx ij
utsjwxj js jq ywfshj ktwetxt d úqynrt ij ifw qf rfst, ijhnw vzj df dt qj
mfgíf ifit qf ríf; vzj dt ansnjwf d htshjinjwf hts ytit hzfsyt jqqf
fhjwyfwf f knslnw js jxyj hfxt.

»Js kns, rj wjxtqaí js vzj utht frtw, utht oznhnt, rzhmf frgnhnós d ijxjtx
ij lwfsijefx mnhnjwts vzj xj tqanifxj ij qfx ufqfgwfx hts vzj rj mfgíf
jslfñfit, jsywjyjsnit d xzxyjsyfit js rnx knwrjx jxujwfsefx d mtsjxytx
ijxjtx. Hts jxyfx athjx d hts jxyf nsvznjyzi hfrnsé qt vzj vzjifgf ij
fvzjqqf sthmj, d in fq frfsjhjw js zsf jsywfif ijxyfx xnjwwfx, utw qfx
hzfqjx hfrnsé tywtx ywjx iífx, xns xjsif sn hfrnst fqlzst, mfxyf vzj ansj f
ufwfw f zstx uwfitx, vzj st xé f vzé rfst ijxyfx rtsyfñfx hfjs, d fqqí
uwjlzsyé f zstx lfsfijwtx vzj mfhnf iósij jwf qt ráx áxujwt ijxyfx xnjwwfx.
Inoéwtsrj vzj mfhnf jxyf ufwyj. Qzjlt rj jshfrnsé f jqqf, hts nsyjshnós ij
fhfgfw fvzí qf anif, d, js jsywfsit utw jxyfx fxujwjefx, ijq hfsxfshnt d ij
qf mfrgwj xj hfdó rn rzqf rzjwyf, t, qt vzj dt ráx hwjt, utw ijxjhmfw ij xí
yfs nsúynq hfwlf htrt js rí qqjafgf. Dt vzjié f unj, wjsinit ij qf
sfyzwfqjef, ywfxufxfit ij mfrgwj, xns yjsjw, sn ujsxfw gzxhfw, vznjs rj
xthtwwnjxj.

»Ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf jxyzaj st xé vzé ynjrut, yjsinit js jq xzjqt, fq hfgt
ijq hzfq rj qjafsyé xns mfrgwj, d mfqqé ozsyt f rí f zstx hfgwjwtx, vzj,
xns izif, ijgnjwts xjw qtx vzj rn sjhjxnifi wjrjinfwts, utwvzj jqqtx rj
inojwts ij qf rfsjwf vzj rj mfgífs mfqqfit, d hórt jxyfgf inhnjsit yfsytx
inxufwfyjx d ijxfynstx, vzj ifgf nsinhntx hqfwtx ij mfgjw ujwinit jq
oznhnt; d dt mj xjsynit js rí, ijxuzéx fhá, vzj st ytifx ajhjx qj yjslt
hfgfq, xnst yfs ijxrjiwfit d kqfht vzj mflt rnq qthzwfx, wfxlásitrj qtx
ajxynitx, ifsit athjx utw jxyfx xtqjifijx, rfqinhnjsit rn ajsyzwf d
wjunynjsit js afst jq strgwj frfit ij rn jsjrnlf, xns yjsjw tywt inxhzwxt
sn nsyjsyt jsytshjx vzj uwthzwfw fhfgfw qf anif athjfsit; d hzfsit js rí
azjqat, rj mfqqt yfs hfsxfit d rtqnit, vzj fujsfx uzjit rtajwrj. Rn ráx
htrús mfgnyfhnós jx js jq mzjht ij zs fqhtwstvzj, hfufe ij hzgwnw jxyj
rnxjwfgqj hzjwut. Qtx afvzjwtx d hfgwjwtx vzj fsifs utw jxyfx rtsyfñfx,
rtanitx ij hfwnifi, rj xzxyjsyfs, utsnésitrj jq rfsofw utw qtx hfrnstx d
utw qfx ujñfx utw itsij jsynjsijs vzj fhfxt utiwé ufxfw d mfqqfwqt; d fxí,
fzsvzj jsytshjx rj kfqyj jq oznhnt, qf sjhjxnifi sfyzwfq rj if f htsthjw jq
rfsyjsnrnjsyt, d ijxunjwyf js rí jq ijxjt ij fujyjhjwqt d qf atqzsyfi ij
ytrfwqt. Tywfx ajhjx rj inhjs jqqtx, hzfsit rj jshzjsywfs hts oznhnt, vzj
dt xfqlt f qtx hfrnstx d vzj xj qt vznyt utw kzjwef, fzsvzj rj qt ijs ij
lwfit, f qtx ufxytwjx vzj anjsjs hts jqqt ijq qzlfw f qfx rfofifx.
»Ijxyf rfsjwf ufxt rn rnxjwfgqj d jxywjrf anif, mfxyf vzj jq hnjqt xjf
xjwanit ij htsizhnwqj f xz úqynrt kns, t ij utsjwqj js rn rjrtwnf, ufwf vzj
st rj fhzjwij ij qf mjwrtxzwf d ij qf ywfnhnós ij Qzxhnsif d ijq flwfant ij
its Kjwsfsit; vzj xn jxyt éq mfhj xns vznyfwrj qf anif, dt atqajwé f rjotw
inxhzwxt rnx ujsxfrnjsytx; itsij st, st mfd xnst wtlfwqj vzj fgxtqzyfrjsyj
yjslf rnxjwnhtwinf ij rn fqrf, vzj dt st xnjsyt js rí afqtw sn kzjwefx ufwf
xfhfw jq hzjwut ijxyf jxywjhmjef js vzj utw rn lzxyt mj vzjwnit utsjwqj».
Éxyf jx, ¡tm xjñtwjx!, qf frfwlf mnxytwnf ij rn ijxlwfhnf: ijhnirj xn jx
yfq, vzj uzjif hjqjgwfwxj hts rjstx xjsynrnjsytx vzj qtx vzj js rí mfgénx
anxyt; d st tx hfsxénx js ujwxzfinwrj sn fhtsxjofwrj qt vzj qf wfeós tx
inojwj vzj uzjij xjw gzjst ufwf rn wjrjint, utwvzj mf ij fuwtajhmfw htsrnlt
qt vzj fuwtajhmf qf rjinhnsf wjhjyfif ij kfrtxt réinht fq jskjwrt vzj
wjhjgnw st qf vznjwj. Dt st vznjwt xfqzi xns Qzxhnsif; d, uzjx jqqf lzxyó
ij xjw fojsf, xnjsit, t ijgnjsit xjw, ríf, lzxyj dt ij xjw ij qf
ijxajsyzwf, uzinjsit mfgjw xnit ij qf gzjsf inhmf. Jqqf vznxt, hts xz
rzifsef, mfhjw jxyfgqj rn ujwinhnós; dt vzjwwé, hts uwthzwfw ujwijwrj,
mfhjw htsyjsyf xz atqzsyfi, d xjwá jojruqt f qtx utw ajsnw ij vzj f rí xtqt
kfqyó qt vzj f ytitx qtx ijxinhmfitx xtgwf, f qtx hzfqjx xzjqj xjw htsxzjqt
qf nrutxngnqnifi ij yjsjwqj, d js rí jx hfzxf ij rfdtwjx xjsynrnjsytx d
rfqjx, utwvzj fzs unjsxt vzj st xj mfs ij fhfgfw hts qf rzjwyj.

Fvzí int kns Hfwijsnt f xz qfwlf uqáynhf d yfs ijxinhmfif htrt frtwtxf
mnxytwnf. D, fq ynjrut vzj jq hzwf xj uwjajsíf ufwf ijhnwqj fqlzsfx wfetsjx
ij htsxzjqt, qj xzxujsinó zsf ate vzj qqjló f xzx tíitx, vzj js qfxynrfitx
fhjsytx tdjwts vzj ijhíf qt vzj xj inwá js qf hzfwyf ufwyj ijxyf sfwwfhnós,
vzj js jxyj uzsyt int kns f qf yjwhjwf jq xfgnt d fyjsyfit mnxytwnfitw Hnij
Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn.

Hzfwyf ufwyj ijq nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf





Hfuíyzqt CCANNN. Vzj ywfyf ij qf szjaf d flwfifgqj fajsyzwf vzj fq hzwf d
gfwgjwt xzhjinó js qf rjxrf xnjwwf


Kjqnhíxnrtx d ajsyzwtxtx kzjwts qtx ynjrutx itsij xj jhmó fq rzsit jq
fzifhíxnrt hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, uzjx utw mfgjw yjsnit yfs
mtswtxf ijyjwrnsfhnós htrt kzj jq vzjwjw wjxzhnyfw d atqajw fq rzsit qf df
ujwinif d hfxn rzjwyf twijs ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, ltefrtx fmtwf, js
jxyf szjxywf jifi, sjhjxnyfif ij fqjlwjx jsywjyjsnrnjsytx, st xóqt ij qf
izqezwf ij xz ajwifijwf mnxytwnf, xnst ij qtx hzjsytx d junxtintx ijqqf,
vzj, js ufwyj, st xts rjstx flwfifgqjx d fwynknhntxtx d ajwifijwtx vzj qf
rnxrf mnxytwnf; qf hzfq, uwtxnlznjsit xz wfxywnqqfit, ytwhnit d fxufit
mnqt, hzjsyf vzj, fxí htrt jq hzwf htrjseó f uwjajsnwxj ufwf htsxtqfw f
Hfwijsnt, qt nruninó zsf ate vzj qqjló f xzx tíitx, vzj, hts ywnxyjx
fhjsytx, ijhíf ijxyf rfsjwf:

-¡Fd Intx! ¿Xn xjwá utxngqj vzj mj df mfqqfit qzlfw vzj uzjif xjwanw ij
jxhtsinif xjuzqyzwf f qf hfwlf ujxfif ijxyj hzjwut, vzj yfs htsywf rn
atqzsyfi xtxyjslt? Xí xjwá, xn qf xtqjifi vzj uwtrjyjs jxyfx xnjwwfx st rj
rnjsyj. ¡Fd, ijxinhmfif, d hzás ráx flwfifgqj htrufñíf mfwás jxytx wnxhtx d
rfqjefx f rn nsyjshnós, uzjx rj ifwás qzlfw ufwf vzj hts vzjofx htrzsnvzj
rn ijxlwfhnf fq hnjqt, vzj st qf ij snslús mtrgwj mzrfst, uzjx st mfd
snslzst js qf ynjwwf ij vznjs xj uzjif jxujwfw htsxjot js qfx izifx, fqnant
js qfx vzjofx, sn wjrjint js qtx rfqjx!

Ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx tdjwts d ujwhngnjwts jq hzwf d qtx vzj hts éq jxyfgfs,
d utw ufwjhjwqjx, htrt jqqt jwf, vzj fqqí ozsyt qfx ijhífs, xj qjafsyfwts f
gzxhfw jq izjñt, d st mzgnjwts fsifit ajnsyj ufxtx, hzfsit ijywáx ij zs
ujñfxht anjwts, xjsyfit fq unj ij zs kwjxst, f zs rtet ajxynit htrt
qfgwfitw, fq hzfq, utw yjsjw nshqnsfit jq wtxywt, f hfzxf ij vzj xj qfafgf
qtx unjx js jq fwwtdt vzj utw fqqí htwwíf, st xj qj uzinjwts ajw utw
jsytshjx. D jqqtx qqjlfwts hts yfsyt xnqjshnt vzj iéq st kzjwts xjsynitx,
sn éq jxyfgf f tywf htxf fyjsyt vzj f qfafwxj qtx unjx, vzj jwfs yfqjx, vzj
st ufwjhífs xnst itx ujifetx ij gqfsht hwnxyfq vzj jsywj qfx tywfx unjiwfx
ijq fwwtdt xj mfgífs sfhnit. Xzxujsinóqjx qf gqfshzwf d gjqqjef ij qtx
unjx, ufwjhnésitqjx vzj st jxyfgfs mjhmtx f unxfw yjwwtsjx, sn f fsifw ywfx
jq fwfit d qtx gzjdjx, htrt rtxywfgf jq mágnyt ij xz izjñt; d fxí, anjsit
vzj st mfgífs xnit xjsynitx, jq hzwf, vzj ngf ijqfsyj, mnet xjñfx f qtx
tywtx itx vzj xj flfefufxjs t jxhtsinjxjs ijywáx ij zstx ujifetx ij ujñf
vzj fqqí mfgíf, d fxí qt mnhnjwts ytitx, rnwfsit hts fyjshnós qt vzj jq
rtet mfhíf; jq hzfq ywfíf uzjxyt zs hfutynqqt ufwit ij itx mfqifx, rzd
hjñnit fq hzjwut hts zsf ytfqqf gqfshf. Ywfíf, fsxnrjxrt, zstx hfqetsjx d
utqfnsfx ij ufñt ufwit, d js qf hfgjef zsf rtsyjwf ufwif. Yjsíf qfx
utqfnsfx qjafsyfifx mfxyf qf rnyfi ij qf unjwsf, vzj, xns izif fqlzsf, ij
gqfsht fqfgfxywt ufwjhíf. Fhfgóxj ij qfafw qtx mjwrtxtx unjx, d qzjlt, hts
zs ufñt ij ythfw, vzj xfhó ijgfot ij qf rtsyjwf, xj qtx qnrunó; d, fq
vzjwjw vznyáwxjqj, fqeó jq wtxywt, d yzanjwts qzlfw qtx vzj rnwásitqj
jxyfgfs ij ajw zsf mjwrtxzwf nshtrufwfgqj; yfq, vzj Hfwijsnt inot fq hzwf,
hts ate gfof:

-Éxyf, df vzj st jx Qzxhnsif, st jx ujwxtsf mzrfsf, xnst inansf.

Jq rtet xj vznyó qf rtsyjwf, d, xfhzinjsit qf hfgjef f zsf d f tywf ufwyj,
xj htrjsefwts f ijxhtljw d ijxufwhnw zstx hfgjqqtx, vzj uzinjwfs qtx ijq
xtq yjsjwqjx jsaninf. Hts jxyt htsthnjwts vzj jq vzj ufwjhíf qfgwfitw jwf
rzojw, d ijqnhfif, d fzs qf ráx mjwrtxf vzj mfxyf jsytshjx qtx totx ij qtx
itx mfgífs anxyt, d fzs qtx ij Hfwijsnt, xn st mzgnjwfs rnwfit d htsthnit f
Qzxhnsif; vzj ijxuzéx fknwró vzj xtqf qf gjqqjef ij Qzxhnsif utiíf
htsyjsijw hts fvzéqqf. Qtx qzjsltx d wzgntx hfgjqqtx st xóqt qj hzgwnjwts
qfx jxufqifx, rfx ytif js ytwst qf jxhtsinjwts ijgfot ij jqqtx; vzj xn st
jwfs qtx unjx, snslzsf tywf htxf ij xz hzjwut xj ufwjhíf: yfqjx d yfsytx
jwfs. Js jxyt, qjx xnwanó ij ujnsj zsfx rfstx, vzj xn qtx unjx js jq flzf
mfgífs ufwjhnit ujifetx ij hwnxyfq, qfx rfstx js qtx hfgjqqtx xjrjofgfs
ujifetx ij fuwjyfif snjaj; ytit qt hzfq, js ráx firnwfhnós d js ráx ijxjt
ij xfgjw vznés jwf utsíf f qtx ywjx vzj qf rnwfgfs.

Utw jxyt ijyjwrnsfwts ij rtxywfwxj, d, fq rtanrnjsyt vzj mnhnjwts ij
utsjwxj js unj, qf mjwrtxf rtef fqeó qf hfgjef, d, fufwyásitxj qtx hfgjqqtx
ij ijqfsyj ij qtx totx hts jsywfrgfx rfstx, rnwó qtx vzj jq wznit mfhífs; d
fujsfx qtx mzgt anxyt, hzfsit xj qjafsyó js unj, d, xns flzfwifw f hfqefwxj
sn f wjhtljw qtx hfgjqqtx, fxnó hts rzhmf uwjxyjef zs gzqyt, htrt ij wtuf,
vzj ozsyt f xí yjsíf, d vznxt utsjwxj js mznif, qqjsf ij yzwgfhnós d
xtgwjxfqyt; rfx st mzgt ifit xjnx ufxtx hzfsit, st uzinjsit xzkwnw qtx
ijqnhfitx unjx qf fxujwjef ij qfx unjiwfx, int htsxnlt js jq xzjqt. Qt hzfq
anxyt utw qtx ywjx, xfqnjwts f jqqf, d jq hzwf kzj jq uwnrjwt vzj qj inot:
-Ijyjsjtx, xjñtwf, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjánx, vzj qtx vzj fvzí ajnx xóqt ynjsjs
nsyjshnós ij xjwanwtx. St mfd ufwf vzé tx utslánx js yfs nrujwynsjsyj
mznif, utwvzj sn azjxywtx unjx qt utiwás xzkwnw sn stxtywtx htsxjsynw.
F ytit jxyt, jqqf st wjxutsiíf ufqfgwf, fyósnyf d htskzxf. Qqjlfwts, uzjx,
f jqqf, d, fxnésitqf utw qf rfst jq hzwf, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-Qt vzj azjxywt ywfoj, xjñtwf, stx snjlf, azjxywtx hfgjqqtx stx ijxhzgwjs:
xjñfqjx hqfwfx vzj st ijgjs ij xjw ij utht rtrjsyt qfx hfzxfx vzj mfs
inxkwfefit azjxywf gjqqjef js mágnyt yfs nsinlst, d ywfíitqf f yfsyf
xtqjifi htrt jx éxyf, js qf hzfq mf xnit ajsyzwf jq mfqqfwtx, xn st ufwf
ifw wjrjint f azjxywtx rfqjx, f qt rjstx ufwf ifwqjx htsxjot, uzjx snslús
rfq uzjij kfynlfw yfsyt, sn qqjlfw yfs fq jxywjrt ij xjwqt, rnjsywfx st
fhfgf qf anif, vzj wjmúdf ij st jxhzhmfw xnvznjwf jq htsxjot vzj hts gzjsf
nsyjshnós xj qj if fq vzj qt ufijhj. Fxí vzj, xjñtwf ríf, t xjñtw rít, t qt
vzj atx vznxnjwijx xjw, ujwiji jq xtgwjxfqyt vzj szjxywf anxyf tx mf
hfzxfit d htsyfistx azjxywf gzjsf t rfqf xzjwyj; vzj js stxtywtx ozsytx, t
js hfif zst, mfqqfwénx vznjs tx fdzij f xjsynw azjxywfx ijxlwfhnfx.

Js yfsyt vzj jq hzwf ijhíf jxyfx wfetsjx, jxyfgf qf inxkwfefif rtef htrt
jrgjqjxfif, rnwásitqtx f ytitx, xns rtajw qfgnt sn ijhnw ufqfgwf fqlzsf:
gnjs fxí htrt wúxynht fqijfst vzj ij nruwtanxt xj qj rzjxywfs htxfx wfwfx d
iéq ofráx anxyfx. Rfx, atqanjsit jq hzwf f ijhnwqj tywfx wfetsjx fq rjxrt
jkjyt jshfrnsfifx, ifsit jqqf zs uwtkzsit xzxunwt, wtrunó jq xnqjshnt d
inot:

-Uzjx vzj qf xtqjifi ijxyfx xnjwwfx st mf xnit ufwyj ufwf jshzgwnwrj, sn qf
xtqyzwf ij rnx ijxhtruzjxytx hfgjqqtx st mf ujwrnynit vzj xjf rjsynwtxf rn
qjslzf, js gfqij xjwíf knslnw dt ij szjat fmtwf qt vzj, xn xj rj hwjdjxj,
xjwíf ráx utw htwyjxíf vzj utw tywf wfeós fqlzsf. Uwjxzuzjxyt jxyt, inlt,
xjñtwjx, vzj tx flwfijeht jq tkwjhnrnjsyt vzj rj mfgénx mjhmt, jq hzfq rj
mf uzjxyt js tgqnlfhnós ij xfynxkfhjwtx js ytit qt vzj rj mfgénx ujinit,
uzjxyt vzj yjrt vzj qf wjqfhnós vzj tx mnhnjwj ij rnx ijxinhmfx tx mf ij
hfzxfw, fq ufw ij qf htrufxnós, qf ujxfizrgwj, utwvzj st mfgénx ij mfqqfw
wjrjint ufwf wjrjinfwqfx sn htsxzjqt ufwf jsywjyjsjwqfx. Ujwt, hts ytit
jxyt, utwvzj st fsij afhnqfsit rn mtswf js azjxywfx nsyjshntsjx, mfgnésitrj
df htsthnit utw rzojw d anésitrj rtef, xtqf d js jxyj ywfoj, htxfx ytifx
ozsyfx, d hfif zsf utw xí, vzj uzjijs jhmfw utw ynjwwf hzfqvznjw mtsjxyt
hwéinyt, tx mfgwé ij ijhnw qt vzj vznxnjwf hfqqfw xn uzinjwf.

Ytit jxyt inot xns ufwfw qf vzj yfs mjwrtxf rzojw ufwjhíf, hts yfs xzjqyf
qjslzf, hts ate yfs xzfaj, vzj st rjstx qjx firnwó xz inxhwjhnós vzj xz
mjwrtxzwf. D, ytwsásitqj f mfhjw szjatx tkwjhnrnjsytx d szjatx wzjltx ufwf
vzj qt uwtrjynit hzruqnjxj, jqqf, xns mfhjwxj ráx ij wtlfw, hfqeásitxj hts
ytif mtsjxynifi d wjhtlnjsit xzx hfgjqqtx, xj fhtrtió js jq fxnjsyt ij zsf
unjiwf, d, uzjxytx qtx ywjx fqwjijitw ijqqf, mfhnésitxj kzjwef utw ijyjsjw
fqlzsfx qálwnrfx vzj f qtx totx xj qj ajsífs, hts ate wjutxfif d hqfwf,
htrjseó qf mnxytwnf ij xz anif ijxyf rfsjwf:

-«Js jxyf Fsifqzhíf mfd zs qzlfw ij vznjs ytrf yíyzqt zs izvzj, vzj qj mfhj
zst ij qtx vzj qqfrfs lwfsijx js Jxufñf. Éxyj ynjsj itx mnotx: jq rfdtw,
mjwjijwt ij xz jxyfit, d, fq ufwjhjw, ij xzx gzjsfx htxyzrgwjx; d jq rjstw,
st xé dt ij vzé xjf mjwjijwt, xnst ij qfx ywfnhntsjx ij Ajqqnit d ij qtx
jrgzxyjx ij Lfqfqós. Ijxyj xjñtw xts afxfqqtx rnx ufiwjx, mzrnqijx js
qnsfoj, ujwt yfs wnhtx vzj xn qtx gnjsjx ij xz sfyzwfqjef nlzfqfwfs f qtx
ij xz ktwyzsf, sn jqqtx yzanjwfs ráx vzj ijxjfw sn dt yjrnjwf ajwrj js qf
ijxinhmf js vzj rj ajt; utwvzj vzneá sfhj rn uthf ajsyzwf ij qf vzj st
yzanjwts jqqtx js st mfgjw sfhnit nqzxywjx. Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj st xts yfs
gfotx vzj uzjifs fkwjsyfwxj ij xz jxyfit, sn yfs fqytx vzj f rí rj vznyjs
qf nrflnsfhnós vzj yjslt ij vzj ij xz mzrnqifi anjsj rn ijxlwfhnf. Jqqtx,
js kns, xts qfgwfitwjx, ljsyj qqfsf, xns rjehqf ij fqlzsf wfef rfq xtsfsyj,
d, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, hwnxynfstx anjotx wfshntxtx; ujwt yfs wnhtx vzj xz
wnvzjef d rflsíknht ywfyt qjx af utht f utht fivznwnjsit strgwj ij
mnifqltx, d fzs ij hfgfqqjwtx. Uzjxyt vzj ij qf rfdtw wnvzjef d stgqjef vzj
jqqtx xj uwjhnfgfs jwf ij yjsjwrj f rí utw mnof; d, fxí utw st yjsjw tywf
sn tywt vzj qtx mjwjifxj htrt utw xjw ufiwjx, d fknhntsfitx, dt jwf zsf ij
qfx ráx wjlfqfifx mnofx vzj ufiwjx ofráx wjlfqfwts. Jwf jq jxujot js vzj xj
rnwfgfs, jq gáhzqt ij xz ajoje, d jq xzojyt f vznjs jshfrnsfgfs,
rninésitqtx hts jq hnjqt, ytitx xzx ijxjtx; ij qtx hzfqjx, utw xjw jqqtx
yfs gzjstx, qtx rítx st xfqífs zs uzsyt. D ijq rnxrt rtit vzj dt jwf xjñtwf
ij xzx ásnrtx, fsxí qt jwf ij xz mfhnjsif: utw rí xj wjhjgífs d ijxujiífs
qtx hwnfitx; qf wfeós d hzjsyf ij qt vzj xj xjrgwfgf d htlíf ufxfgf utw rn
rfst; qtx rtqnstx ij fhjnyj, qtx qflfwjx ij anst, jq súrjwt ijq lfsfit
rfdtw d rjstw, jq ij qfx htqrjsfx. Knsfqrjsyj, ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj zs yfs
wnht qfgwfitw htrt rn ufiwj uzjij yjsjw d ynjsj, yjsíf dt qf hzjsyf, d jwf
qf rfdtwitrf d xjñtwf, hts yfsyf xtqnhnyzi ríf d hts yfsyt lzxyt xzdt, vzj
gzjsfrjsyj st fhjwyfwé f jshfwjhjwqt. Qtx wfytx vzj ijq iíf rj vzjifgfs,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjw ifit qt vzj htsajsíf f qtx rfdtwfqjx, f hfufyfhjx d f
tywtx otwsfqjwtx, qtx jsywjyjsíf js jojwhnhntx vzj xts f qfx itshjqqfx yfs
qíhnytx htrt sjhjxfwntx, htrt xts qtx vzj tkwjhj qf flzof d qf fqrtmfinqqf,
d qf wzjhf rzhmfx ajhjx; d xn fqlzsf, utw wjhwjfw jq ásnrt, jxytx
jojwhnhntx ijofgf, rj fhtlíf fq jsywjyjsnrnjsyt ij qjjw fqlús qngwt ijatyt,
t f ythfw zsf fwuf, utwvzj qf jcujwnjshnf rj rtxywfgf vzj qf rúxnhf htrutsj
qtx ásnrtx ijxhtruzjxytx d fqnanf qtx ywfgfotx vzj sfhjs ijq jxuíwnyz.
»Éxyf, uzjx, jwf qf anif vzj dt yjsíf js hfxf ij rnx ufiwjx, qf hzfq, xn
yfs ufwynhzqfwrjsyj mj htsyfit, st mf xnit utw txyjsyfhnós sn utw ifw f
jsyjsijw vzj xtd wnhf, xnst utwvzj xj fianjwyf hzás xns hzquf rj mj ajsnit
ij fvzjq gzjs jxyfit vzj mj inhmt fq nskjqnhj js vzj fmtwf rj mfqqt. Jx,
uzjx, jq hfxt vzj, ufxfsit rn anif js yfsyfx thzufhntsjx d js zs
jshjwwfrnjsyt yfq vzj fq ij zs rtsjxyjwnt uzinjwf htrufwfwxj, xns xjw
anxyf, f rn ufwjhjw, ij tywf ujwxtsf fqlzsf vzj ij qtx hwnfitx ij hfxf,
utwvzj qtx iífx vzj ngf f rnxf jwf yfs ij rfñfsf, d yfs fhtrufñfif ij rn
rfiwj d ij tywfx hwnfifx, d dt yfs hzgnjwyf d wjhfyfif vzj fujsfx aífs rnx
totx ráx ynjwwf ij fvzjqqf itsij utsíf qtx unjx; d, hts ytit jxyt, qtx ijq
frtw, t qtx ij qf thntxnifi, utw rjotw ijhnw, f vznjs qtx ij qnshj st
uzjijs nlzfqfwxj, rj anjwts, uzjxytx js qf xtqnhnyzi ij its Kjwsfsit, vzj
éxyj jx jq strgwj ijq mnot rjstw ijq izvzj vzj tx mj htsyfit».

St mzgt gnjs strgwfit f its Kjwsfsit qf vzj jq hzjsyt htsyfgf, hzfsit f
Hfwijsnt xj qj rzió qf htqtw ijq wtxywt, d htrjseó f ywfxzifw, hts yfs
lwfsij fqyjwfhnós vzj jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, vzj rnwfwts js jqqt, yjrnjwts
vzj qj ajsíf fvzjq fhhnijsyj ij qthzwf vzj mfgífs tíit ijhnw vzj ij hzfsit
js hzfsit qj ajsíf. Rfx Hfwijsnt st mnet tywf htxf vzj ywfxzifw d jxyfwxj
vzjit, rnwfsit ij mnyt js mnyt f qf qfgwfitwf, nrflnsfsit vznés jqqf jwf;
qf hzfq, xns fiajwynw js qtx rtanrnjsytx ij Hfwijsnt, uwtxnlznó xz
mnxytwnf, inhnjsit:

-«D st rj mzgnjwts gnjs anxyt hzfsit, xjlús éq inot ijxuzéx, vzjió yfs
uwjxt ij rnx frtwjx hzfsyt qt injwts gnjs f jsyjsijw xzx ijrtxywfhntsjx.
Rfx, utw fhfgfw uwjxyt hts jq hzjsyt, vzj st qj ynjsj, ij rnx ijxinhmfx,
vznjwt ufxfw js xnqjshnt qfx inqnljshnfx vzj its Kjwsfsit mnet ufwf
ijhqfwfwrj xz atqzsyfi. Xtgtwsó ytif qf ljsyj ij rn hfxf, int d tkwjhnó
iáinafx d rjwhjijx f rnx ufwnjsyjx. Qtx iífx jwfs ytitx ij knjxyf d ij
wjlthnot js rn hfqqj; qfx sthmjx st ijofgfs itwrnw f sfinj qfx rúxnhfx. Qtx
gnqqjyjx vzj, xns xfgjw hórt, f rnx rfstx ajsífs, jwfs nsknsnytx, qqjstx ij
jsfrtwfifx wfetsjx d tkwjhnrnjsytx, hts rjstx qjywfx vzj uwtrjxfx d
ozwfrjsytx. Ytit qt hzfq st xóqt st rj fgqfsifgf, ujwt rj jsizwjhíf ij
rfsjwf htrt xn kzjwf rn rtwyfq jsjrnlt, d vzj ytifx qfx tgwfx vzj ufwf
wjizhnwrj f xz atqzsyfi mfhíf, qfx mnhnjwf ufwf jq jkjyt htsywfwnt; st
utwvzj f rí rj ufwjhnjxj rfq qf ljsynqjef ij its Kjwsfsit, sn vzj yzanjxj f
ijrfxíf xzx xtqnhnyzijx; utwvzj rj ifgf zs st xé vzé ij htsyjsyt ajwrj yfs
vzjwnif d jxynrfif ij zs yfs uwnshnufq hfgfqqjwt, d st rj ujxfgf ajw js xzx
ufujqjx rnx fqfgfsefx: vzj js jxyt, utw kjfx vzj xjfrtx qfx rzojwjx, rj
ufwjhj f rí vzj xnjruwj stx if lzxyt jq tíw vzj stx qqfrfs mjwrtxfx.
»Ujwt f ytit jxyt xj tutsj rn mtsjxynifi d qtx htsxjotx htsynsztx vzj rnx
ufiwjx rj ifgfs, vzj df rzd fq ijxhzgnjwyt xfgífs qf atqzsyfi ij its
Kjwsfsit, utwvzj df f éq st xj qj ifgf sfif ij vzj ytit jq rzsit qf
xzunjxj. Ijhífsrj rnx ufiwjx vzj js xtqf rn anwyzi d gtsifi ijofgfs d
ijutxnyfgfs xz mtswf d kfrf, d vzj htsxnijwfxj qf ijxnlzfqifi vzj mfgíf
jsywj rí d its Kjwsfsit, d vzj utw fvzí jhmfwíf ij ajw vzj xzx
ujsxfrnjsytx, fzsvzj éq inojxj tywf htxf, rfx xj jshfrnsfgfs f xz lzxyt vzj
f rn uwtajhmt; d vzj xn dt vznxnjxj utsjw js fqlzsf rfsjwf fqlús
nshtsajsnjsyj ufwf vzj éq xj ijofxj ij xz nsozxyf uwjyjsxnós, vzj jqqtx rj
hfxfwífs qzjlt hts vznjs dt ráx lzxyfxj: fxí ij qtx ráx uwnshnufqjx ij
szjxywt qzlfw htrt ij ytitx qtx hnwhzsajhnstx, uzjx ytit xj utiíf jxujwfw
ij xz rzhmf mfhnjsif d ij rn gzjsf kfrf. Hts jxytx hnjwytx uwtrjynrnjsytx,
d hts qf ajwifi vzj jqqtx rj ijhífs, ktwynknhfgf dt rn jsyjwjef, d ofráx
vznxj wjxutsijw f its Kjwsfsit ufqfgwf vzj qj uzinjxj rtxywfw, fzsvzj ij
rzd qjotx, jxujwfsef ij fqhfsefw xz ijxjt.

»Ytitx jxytx wjhfytx rítx, vzj éq ijgíf ij yjsjw utw ijxijsjx, ijgnjwts ij
xjw hfzxf ij fanafw ráx xz qfxhnat fujynyt, vzj jxyj strgwj vznjwt ifw f qf
atqzsyfi vzj rj rtxywfgf; qf hzfq, xn jqqf kzjwf htrt ijgíf, st qf
xzunéwfijx atxtywtx fmtwf, utwvzj mzgnjwf kfqyfit qf thfxnós ij ijhíwtxqf.
Knsfqrjsyj, its Kjwsfsit xzut vzj rnx ufiwjx fsifgfs utw ifwrj jxyfit, utw
vznyfqqj f éq qf jxujwfsef ij utxjjwrj, t, f qt rjstx, utwvzj dt yzanjxj
ráx lzfwifx ufwf lzfwifwrj; d jxyf szjaf t xtxujhmf kzj hfzxf ufwf vzj
mnhnjxj qt vzj fmtwf tnwénx. D kzj vzj zsf sthmj, jxyfsit dt js rn futxjsyt
hts xtqf qf htrufñíf ij zsf itshjqqf vzj rj xjwaíf, yjsnjsit gnjs hjwwfifx
qfx uzjwyfx, utw yjrtw vzj, utw ijxhznit, rn mtsjxynifi st xj anjxj js
ujqnlwt, xns xfgjw sn nrflnsfw hórt, js rjint ijxytx wjhfytx d
uwjajshntsjx, d js qf xtqjifi ijxyj xnqjshnt d jshnjwwt, rj qj mfqqé
ijqfsyj, hzdf anxyf rj yzwgó ij rfsjwf vzj rj vznyó qf ij rnx totx d rj
jsrzijhnó qf qjslzf; d fxí, st kzn utijwtxf ij ifw athjx, sn fzs éq hwjt
vzj rj qfx ijofwf ifw, utwvzj qzjlt xj qqjló f rí, d, ytrásitrj jsywj xzx
gwfetx (utwvzj dt, htrt inlt, st yzaj kzjwefx ufwf ijkjsijwrj, xjlús jxyfgf
yzwgfif), htrjseó f ijhnwrj yfqjx wfetsjx, vzj st xé hórt jx utxngqj vzj
yjslf yfsyf mfgnqnifi qf rjsynwf vzj qfx xjuf htrutsjw ij rtit vzj ufwjehfs
yfs ajwifijwfx. Mfhíf jq ywfnitw vzj xzx qálwnrfx fhwjinyfxjs xzx ufqfgwfx
d qtx xzxunwtx xz nsyjshnós. Dt, utgwjhnqqf, xtqf jsywj qtx rítx, rfq
jojwhnyfif js hfxtx xjrjofsyjx, htrjshé, st xé js vzé rtit, f yjsjw utw
ajwifijwfx yfsyfx kfqxjifijx, ujwt st ij xzjwyj vzj rj rtanjxjs f htrufxnós
rjstx vzj gzjsf xzx qálwnrfx d xzxunwtx.

»D fxí, ufxásitxjrj fvzjq xtgwjxfqyt uwnrjwt, ytwsé fqlús yfsyt f htgwfw
rnx ujwinitx jxuíwnyzx, d hts ráx ásnrt ijq vzj ujsxé vzj uzinjwf yjsjw, qj
inoj: ''Xn htrt jxytd, xjñtw, js yzx gwfetx, jxyzanjwf jsywj qtx ij zs qjós
knjwt d jq qngwfwrj ijqqtx xj rj fxjlzwfwf hts vzj mnhnjwf, t inojwf, htxf
vzj kzjwf js ujwoznhnt ij rn mtsjxynifi, fxí kzjwf utxngqj mfhjqqf t
ijhnqqf htrt jx utxngqj ijofw ij mfgjw xnit qt vzj kzj. Fxí vzj, xn yú
ynjsjx hjñnit rn hzjwut hts yzx gwfetx, dt yjslt fyfif rn fqrf hts rnx
gzjstx ijxjtx, vzj xts yfs inkjwjsyjx ij qtx yzdtx htrt qt ajwáx xn hts
mfhjwrj kzjwef vznxnjwjx ufxfw fijqfsyj js jqqtx. Yz afxfqqf xtd, ujwt st
yz jxhqfaf; sn ynjsj sn ijgj yjsjw nrujwnt qf stgqjef ij yz xfslwj ufwf
ijxmtswfw d yjsjw js utht qf mzrnqifi ij qf ríf; d js yfsyt rj jxynrt dt,
anqqfsf d qfgwfitwf, htrt yú, xjñtw d hfgfqqjwt. Htsrnlt st mfs ij xjw ij
snslús jkjhyt yzx kzjwefx, sn mfs ij yjsjw afqtw yzx wnvzjefx, sn yzx
ufqfgwfx mfs ij utijw jslfñfwrj, sn yzx xzxunwtx d qálwnrfx jsyjwsjhjwrj.
Xn fqlzsf ij ytifx jxyfx htxfx vzj mj inhmt anjwf dt js jq vzj rnx ufiwjx
rj injwfs utw jxutxt, f xz atqzsyfi xj fozxyfwf qf ríf, d rn atqzsyfi ij qf
xzdf st xfqnjwf; ij rtit vzj, htrt vzjifwf hts mtswf, fzsvzj vzjifwf xns
lzxyt, ij lwfit yj jsywjlfwf qt vzj yú, xjñtw, fmtwf hts yfsyf kzjwef
uwthzwfx. Ytit jxyt mj inhmt utwvzj st jx ujsxfw vzj ij rí fqhfshj htxf
fqlzsf jq vzj st kzjwj rn qnlíynrt jxutxt''. ''Xn st wjufwfx ráx vzj js
jxt, gjqqíxnrf Itwtyjf -(vzj éxyj jx jq strgwj ijxyf ijxinhmfif), inot jq
ijxqjfq hfgfqqjwt-, ajx: fvzí yj itd qf rfst ij xjwqt yzdt, d xjfs yjxynltx
ijxyf ajwifi qtx hnjqtx, f vznjs snslzsf htxf xj fxhtsij, d jxyf nrfljs ij
Szjxywf Xjñtwf vzj fvzí ynjsjx''.»

Hzfsit Hfwijsnt qj tdó ijhnw vzj xj qqfrfgf Itwtyjf, ytwsó ij szjat f xzx
xtgwjxfqytx d fhfgó ij htsknwrfw utw ajwifijwf xz uwnrjwf tunsnós; ujwt st
vznxt nsyjwwtrujw jq hzjsyt, utw ajw js vzé ajsíf f ufwfw qt vzj éq df hfxn
xfgíf; xóqt inot:

-¿Vzj Itwtyjf jx yz strgwj, xjñtwf? Tywf mj tíit dt ijhnw ijq rjxrt, vzj
vzneá htwwj ufwjofx hts yzx ijxinhmfx. Ufxf fijqfsyj, vzj ynjrut ajsiwá js
vzj yj inlf htxfx vzj yj jxufsyjs js jq rjxrt lwfit vzj yj qfxynrjs.
Wjufwó Itwtyjf js qfx wfetsjx ij Hfwijsnt d js xz jxywfñt d ijxfxywfit
ywfoj, d wtlóqj vzj xn fqlzsf htxf ij xz mfhnjsif xfgíf, xj qf inojxj
qzjlt; utwvzj xn fqlt qj mfgíf ijofit gzjst qf ktwyzsf, jwf jq ásnrt vzj
yjsíf ufwf xzkwnw hzfqvznjw ijxfxywj vzj qj xtgwjansnjxj, xjlzwf ij vzj, f
xz ufwjhjw, snslzst utiíf qqjlfw vzj jq vzj yjsíf fhwjhjsyfxj zs uzsyt.
-St qj ujwinjwf dt, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Hfwijsnt-, js ijhnwyj qt vzj unjsxt,
xn kzjwf ajwifi qt vzj nrflnst; d mfxyf fmtwf st xj unjwij htdzsyzwf, sn f
yn yj nrutwyf sfif jq xfgjwqt.

-Xjf qt vzj kzjwj -wjxutsinó Itwtyjf-, «qt vzj js rn hzjsyt ufxf kzj vzj,
ytrfsit its Kjwsfsit zsf nrfljs vzj js fvzjq futxjsyt jxyfgf, qf uzxt utw
yjxynlt ij szjxywt ijxutxtwnt. Hts ufqfgwfx jknhfhíxnrfx d ozwfrjsytx
jxywftwinsfwntx, rj int qf ufqfgwf ij xjw rn rfwnit, uzjxyt vzj, fsyjx vzj
fhfgfxj ij ijhnwqfx, qj inoj vzj rnwfxj gnjs qt vzj mfhíf d vzj htsxnijwfxj
jq jstot vzj xz ufiwj mfgíf ij wjhjgnw ij ajwqj hfxfit hts zsf anqqfsf
afxfqqf xzdf; vzj st qj hjlfxj rn mjwrtxzwf, yfq hzfq jwf, uzjx st jwf
gfxyfsyj ufwf mfqqfw js jqqf inxhzquf ij xz djwwt, d vzj xn fqlús gnjs rj
vzjwíf mfhjw, utw jq frtw vzj rj yjsíf, kzjxj ijofw htwwjw rn xzjwyj f qt
nlzfq ij qt vzj rn hfqnifi utiíf, utwvzj szshf qtx yfs ijxnlzfqjx
hfxfrnjsytx xj ltefs sn izwfs rzhmt js fvzjq lzxyt hts vzj xj htrnjsefs.
»Ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx vzj fvzí mj inhmt qj inoj, d tywfx rzhmfx ij vzj st rj
fhzjwit, ujwt st kzjwts ufwyj ufwf vzj éq ijofxj ij xjlznw xz nsyjsyt, gnjs
fsxí htrt jq vzj st unjsxf uflfw, vzj, fq htshjwyfw ij qf gfwfyf, st wjufwf
js nshtsajsnjsyjx. Dt, f jxyf xfeós, mnhj zs gwjaj inxhzwxt htsrnlt, d rj
inoj f rí rjxrf: ''Xí, vzj st xjwé dt qf uwnrjwf vzj utw aíf ij rfywnrtsnt
mfdf xzgnit ij mzrnqij f lwfsij jxyfit, sn xjwá its Kjwsfsit jq uwnrjwt f
vznjs mjwrtxzwf, t hnjlf fknhnós, vzj jx qt ráx hnjwyt, mfdf mjhmt ytrfw
htrufñíf ijxnlzfq f xz lwfsijef. Uzjx xn st mflt sn rzsit sn zxt szjat,
gnjs jx fhzinw f jxyf mtswf vzj qf xzjwyj rj tkwjhj, uzjxyt vzj js éxyj st
izwj ráx qf atqzsyfi vzj rj rzjxywf ij hzfsyt izwj jq hzruqnrnjsyt ij xz
ijxjt; vzj, js kns, ufwf hts Intx xjwé xz jxutxf. D xn vznjwt hts ijxijsjx
ijxujinqqj, js yéwrnst qj ajt vzj, st zxfsit jq vzj ijgj, zxfwá jq ij qf
kzjwef d ajsiwé f vzjifw ijxmtswfif d xns inxhzquf ij qf hzquf vzj rj utiíf
ifw jq vzj st xzunjwj hzás xns jqqf mj ajsnit f jxyj uzsyt. Utwvzj, ¿vzé
wfetsjx xjwás gfxyfsyjx ufwf ujwxzfinw f rnx ufiwjx, d f tywtx, vzj jxyj
hfgfqqjwt jsywó js rn futxjsyt xns htsxjsynrnjsyt rít?''

»Ytifx jxyfx ijrfsifx d wjxuzjxyfx wjatqaí dt js zs nsxyfsyj js qf
nrflnsfhnós; d, xtgwj ytit, rj htrjsefwts f mfhjw kzjwef d f nshqnsfwrj f
qt vzj kzj, xns dt ujsxfwqt, rn ujwinhnós: qtx ozwfrjsytx ij its Kjwsfsit,
qtx yjxynltx vzj utsíf, qfx qálwnrfx vzj ijwwfrfgf, d, knsfqrjsyj, xz
inxuzxnhnós d ljsynqjef, vzj, fhtrufñfif hts yfsyfx rzjxywfx ij ajwifijwt
frtw, uzinjwfs wjsinw f tywt yfs qngwj d wjhfyfit htwfeós htrt jq rít.
Qqfré f rn hwnfif, ufwf vzj js qf ynjwwf fhtrufñfxj f qtx yjxynltx ijq
hnjqt; ytwsó its Kjwsfsit f wjnyjwfw d htsknwrfw xzx ozwfrjsytx; fñfinó f
qtx uwnrjwtx szjatx xfsytx utw yjxynltx; jhmóxj rnq kzyzwfx rfqinhntsjx, xn
st hzruqnjxj qt vzj rj uwtrjyíf; atqanó f mzrjijhjw xzx totx d f fhwjhjsyfw
xzx xzxunwtx; fuwjyórj ráx jsywj xzx gwfetx, ij qtx hzfqjx ofráx rj mfgíf
ijofit; d hts jxyt, d hts atqajwxj f xfqnw ijq futxjsyt rn itshjqqf, dt
ijoé ij xjwqt d éq fhfgó ij xjw ywfnitw d kjrjsynit.

»Jq iíf vzj xzhjinó f qf sthmj ij rn ijxlwfhnf xj ajsíf fzs st yfs fuwnjxf
htrt dt unjsxt vzj its Kjwsfsit ijxjfgf, utwvzj, ijxuzéx ij hzruqnit
fvzjqqt vzj jq fujynyt unij, jq rfdtw lzxyt vzj uzjij ajsnw jx fufwyfwxj ij
itsij qj fqhfsefwts. Inlt jxyt utwvzj its Kjwsfsit int uwnjxf utw ufwynwxj
ij rí, d, utw nsizxywnf ij rn itshjqqf, vzj jwf qf rnxrf vzj fqqí qj mfgíf
ywfíit, fsyjx vzj frfsjhnjxj xj ant js qf hfqqj. D, fq ijxujinwxj ij rí,
fzsvzj st hts yfsyt fmísht d ajmjrjshnf htrt hzfsit anst, rj inot vzj
jxyzanjxj xjlzwf ij xz kj d ij xjw knwrjx d ajwifijwtx xzx ozwfrjsytx; d,
ufwf ráx htsknwrfhnós ij xz ufqfgwf, xfhó zs wnht fsnqqt ijq ijit d qt uzxt
js jq rít. Js jkjhyt, éq xj kzj d dt vzjié sn xé xn ywnxyj t fqjlwj; jxyt
xé gnjs ijhnw: vzj vzjié htskzxf d ujsxfynaf, d hfxn kzjwf ij rí hts jq
szjat fhfjhnrnjsyt, d st yzaj ásnrt, t st xj rj fhtwió, ij wjñnw f rn
itshjqqf utw qf ywfnhnós htrjynif ij jshjwwfw f its Kjwsfsit js rn rnxrt
futxjsyt, utwvzj fús st rj ijyjwrnsfgf xn jwf gnjs t rfq jq vzj rj mfgíf
xzhjinit. Iíojqj, fq ufwynw, f its Kjwsfsit vzj utw jq rjxrt hfrnst ij
fvzéqqf utiíf ajwrj tywfx sthmjx, uzjx df jwf xzdf, mfxyf vzj, hzfsit éq
vznxnjxj, fvzjq mjhmt xj uzgqnhfxj. Ujwt st anst tywf fqlzsf, xn st kzj qf
xnlznjsyj, sn dt uzij ajwqj js qf hfqqj sn js qf nlqjxnf js ráx ij zs rjx;
vzj js afst rj hfsxé js xtqnhnyfqqt, uzjxyt vzj xzuj vzj jxyfgf js qf anqqf
d vzj qtx ráx iífx ngf f hfef, jojwhnhnt ij vzj éq jwf rzd fknhntsfit.
»Jxytx iífx d jxyfx mtwfx gnjs xé dt vzj ufwf rí kzjwts fhnfltx d
rjslzfifx, d gnjs xé vzj htrjshé f izifw js jqqtx, d fzs f ijxhwjjw ij qf
kj ij its Kjwsfsit; d xé yfrgnés vzj rn itshjqqf tdó jsytshjx qfx ufqfgwfx
vzj js wjuwjmjsxnós ij xz fywjanrnjsyt fsyjx st mfgíf tíit; d xé vzj rj kzj
ktwetxt yjsjw hzjsyf hts rnx qálwnrfx d hts qf htrutxyzwf ij rn wtxywt, utw
st ifw thfxnós f vzj rnx ufiwjx rj uwjlzsyfxjs vzj ij vzé fsifgf
ijxhtsyjsyf d rj tgqnlfxjs f gzxhfw rjsynwfx vzj ijhnqqjx. Ujwt ytit jxyt
xj fhfgó js zs uzsyt, qqjlásitxj zst itsij xj fywtujqqfwts wjxujhytx d xj
fhfgfwts qtx mtswfitx inxhzwxtx, d fitsij xj ujwinó qf ufhnjshnf d xfqnjwts
f uqfef rnx xjhwjytx ujsxfrnjsytx. D jxyt kzj utwvzj, ij fqqí f uthtx iífx,
xj inot js jq qzlfw htrt js zsf hnzifi fqqí hjwhf xj mfgíf hfxfit its
Kjwsfsit hts zsf itshjqqf mjwrtxíxnrf js ytit jxywjrt, d ij rzd uwnshnufqjx
ufiwjx, fzsvzj st yfs wnhf vzj, utw qf ityj, uzinjwf fxunwfw f yfs stgqj
hfxfrnjsyt. Iíotxj vzj xj qqfrfgf Qzxhnsif, hts tywfx htxfx vzj js xzx
ijxutxtwntx xzhjinjwts inlsfx ij firnwfhnós.»

Tdó Hfwijsnt jq strgwj ij Qzxhnsif, d st mnet tywf htxf vzj jshtljw qtx
mtrgwtx, rtwijwxj qtx qfgntx, jsfwhfw qfx hjofx d ijofw ij fqqí f utht hfjw
utw xzx totx itx kzjsyjx ij qálwnrfx. Rfx st utw jxyt ijoó Itwtyjf ij
xjlznw xz hzjsyt, inhnjsit:

-«Qqjló jxyf ywnxyj szjaf f rnx tíitx, d, js qzlfw ij mjqáwxjrj jq htwfeós
js tíqqf, kzj yfsyf qf hóqjwf d wfgnf vzj xj jshjsinó js éq, vzj kfqyó utht
ufwf st xfqnwrj utw qfx hfqqjx ifsit athjx, uzgqnhfsit qf fqjatxíf d
ywfnhnós vzj xj rj mfgíf mjhmt. Rfx yjruqóxj jxyf kzwnf utw jsytshjx hts
ujsxfw ij utsjw fvzjqqf rjxrf sthmj utw tgwf qt vzj uzxj: vzj kzj utsjwrj
js jxyj mágnyt, vzj rj int zst ij qtx vzj qqfrfs eflfqjx js hfxf ij qtx
qfgwfitwjx, vzj jwf hwnfit ij rn ufiwj, fq hzfq ijxhzgwí ytif rn
ijxajsyzwf, d qj wtlzé rj fhtrufñfxj mfxyf qf hnzifi itsij jsyjsií vzj rn
jsjrnlt jxyfgf. Éq, ijxuzéx vzj mzgt wjuwjmjsinit rn fywjanrnjsyt d fkjfit
rn ijyjwrnsfhnós, anésitrj wjxzjqyf js rn ufwjhjw, xj tkwjhnó f yjsjwrj
htrufñíf, htrt éq inot, mfxyf jq hfgt ijq rzsit. Qzjlt, fq rtrjsyt, jshjwwé
js zsf fqrtmfif ij qnjset zs ajxynit ij rzojw, d fqlzsfx otdfx d insjwtx,
utw qt vzj utiíf xzhjijw. D js jq xnqjshnt ij fvzjqqf sthmj, xns ifw hzjsyf
f rn ywfnitwf itshjqqf, xfqí ij rn hfxf, fhtrufñfif ij rn hwnfit d ij
rzhmfx nrflnsfhntsjx, d rj uzxj js hfrnst ij qf hnzifi f unj, qqjafif js
azjqt ijq ijxjt ij qqjlfw, df vzj st f jxytwgfw qt vzj yjsíf utw mjhmt, f
qt rjstx f ijhnw f its Kjwsfsit rj inojxj hts vzé fqrf qt mfgíf mjhmt.
»Qqjlzé js itx iífx d rjint itsij vzjwíf, d, js jsywfsit utw qf hnzifi,
uwjlzsyé utw qf hfxf ij qtx ufiwjx ij Qzxhnsif, d fq uwnrjwt f vznjs mnhj
qf uwjlzsyf rj wjxutsinó ráx ij qt vzj dt vznxnjwf tíw. Iíotrj qf hfxf d
ytit qt vzj mfgíf xzhjinit js jq ijxutxtwnt ij xz mnof, htxf yfs uúgqnhf js
qf hnzifi, vzj xj mfhj js htwwnqqtx ufwf htsyfwqf utw ytif jqqf. Iíotrj vzj
qf sthmj vzj its Kjwsfsit xj ijxutxó hts Qzxhnsif, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw jqqf
ifit jq xí ij xjw xz jxutxf, qj mfgíf ytrfit zs wjhnt ijxrfdt, d vzj,
qqjlfsit xz jxutxt f ijxfgwthmfwqj jq ujhmt ufwf vzj qj injxj jq fnwj, qj
mfqqó zs ufujq jxhwnyt ij qf rnxrf qjywf ij Qzxhnsif, js vzj ijhíf d
ijhqfwfgf vzj jqqf st utiíf xjw jxutxf ij its Kjwsfsit, utwvzj qt jwf ij
Hfwijsnt, vzj, f qt vzj jq mtrgwj rj inot, jwf zs hfgfqqjwt rzd uwnshnufq
ij qf rjxrf hnzifi; d vzj xn mfgíf ifit jq xí f its Kjwsfsit, kzj utw st
xfqnw ij qf tgjinjshnf ij xzx ufiwjx. Js wjxtqzhnós, yfqjx wfetsjx inot vzj
htsyjsíf jq ufujq, vzj ifgf f jsyjsijw vzj jqqf mfgíf yjsnit nsyjshnós ij
rfyfwxj js fhfgásitxj ij ijxutxfw, d ifgf fqqí qfx wfetsjx utw vzj xj mfgíf
vznyfit qf anif. Ytit qt hzfq inhjs vzj htsknwró zsf iflf vzj qj mfqqfwts
st xé js vzé ufwyj ij xzx ajxynitx. Ytit qt hzfq anxyt utw its Kjwsfsit,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj Qzxhnsif qj mfgíf gzwqfit d jxhfwsjhnit d yjsnit js utht,
fwwjrjynó f jqqf, fsyjx vzj ij xz ijxrfdt atqanjxj, d hts qf rnxrf iflf vzj
qj mfqqfwts qf vznxt ifw ij uzñfqfifx; d qt mnhnjwf xn xzx ufiwjx d qtx vzj
xj mfqqfwts uwjxjsyjx st xj qt jxytwgfwfs. Inojwts ráx: vzj qzjlt xj
fzxjsyó its Kjwsfsit, d vzj Qzxhnsif st mfgíf azjqyt ij xz ufwfxnxrt mfxyf
tywt iíf, vzj htsyó f xzx ufiwjx hórt jqqf jwf ajwifijwf jxutxf ij fvzjq
Hfwijsnt vzj mj inhmt. Xzuj ráx: vzj jq Hfwijsnt, xjlús ijhífs, xj mfqqó
uwjxjsyj js qtx ijxutxtwntx, d vzj, js anésitqf ijxutxfif, qt hzfq éq ofráx
ujsxó, xj xfqnó ij qf hnzifi ijxjxujwfit, ijoásitqj uwnrjwt jxhwnyf zsf
hfwyf, itsij ifgf f jsyjsijw jq flwfant vzj Qzxhnsif qj mfgíf mjhmt, d ij
hórt éq xj ngf fitsij ljsyjx st qj anjxjs.

»Jxyt ytit jwf uúgqnht d stytwnt js ytif qf hnzifi, d ytitx mfgqfgfs ijqqt;
d ráx mfgqfwts hzfsit xzunjwts vzj Qzxhnsif mfgíf kfqyfit ij hfxf ij xzx
ufiwjx d ij qf hnzifi, uzjx st qf mfqqfwts js ytif jqqf, ij vzj ujwiífs jq
oznhnt xzx ufiwjx d st xfgífs vzé rjint xj ytrfw ufwf mfqqfwqf. Jxyt vzj
xzuj uzxt js gfsit rnx jxujwfsefx, d yzaj utw rjotw st mfgjw mfqqfit f its
Kjwsfsit, vzj st mfqqfwqj hfxfit, ufwjhnésitrj vzj fús st jxyfgf ijq ytit
hjwwfif qf uzjwyf f rn wjrjint, iásitrj dt f jsyjsijw vzj utiwíf xjw vzj jq
hnjqt mzgnjxj uzjxyt fvzjq nrujinrjsyt js jq xjlzsit rfywnrtsnt, utw
fywfjwqj f htsthjw qt vzj fq uwnrjwt ijgíf, d f hfjw js qf hzjsyf ij vzj
jwf hwnxynfst d vzj jxyfgf ráx tgqnlfit f xz fqrf vzj f qtx wjxujytx
mzrfstx. Ytifx jxyfx htxfx wjatqaíf js rn kfsyfxíf, d rj htsxtqfgf xns
yjsjw htsxzjqt, knslnjsit zsfx jxujwfsefx qfwlfx d ijxrfdfifx, ufwf
jsywjyjsjw qf anif, vzj df fgtwwjeht.

»Jxyfsit, uzjx, js qf hnzifi, xns xfgjw vzé mfhjwrj, uzjx f its Kjwsfsit st
mfqqfgf, qqjló f rnx tíitx zs uúgqnht uwjlós, itsij xj uwtrjyíf lwfsij
mfqqfelt f vznjs rj mfqqfxj, ifsit qfx xjñfx ij qf jifi d ijq rjxrt ywfoj
vzj ywfíf; d tí ijhnw vzj xj ijhíf vzj rj mfgíf xfhfit ij hfxf ij rnx
ufiwjx jq rtet vzj htsrnlt anst, htxf vzj rj qqjló fq fqrf, utw ajw hzás ij
hfíif fsifgf rn hwéinyt, uzjx st gfxyfgf ujwijwqj hts rn ajsnif, xnst
fñfinw jq hts vznés, xnjsit xzgojyt yfs gfot d yfs nsinlst ij rnx gzjstx
ujsxfrnjsytx. Fq uzsyt vzj tí jq uwjlós, rj xfqí ij qf hnzifi hts rn
hwnfit, vzj df htrjsefgf f ifw rzjxywfx ij ynyzgjfw js qf kj vzj ij
knijqnifi rj yjsíf uwtrjynif, d fvzjqqf sthmj stx jsywfrtx utw qt jxujxt
ijxyf rtsyfñf, hts jq rnjit ij st xjw mfqqfitx. Ujwt, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj
vzj zs rfq qqfrf f tywt, d vzj jq kns ij zsf ijxlwfhnf xzjqj xjw uwnshnunt
ij tywf rfdtw, fxí rj xzhjinó f rí, utwvzj rn gzjs hwnfit, mfxyf jsytshjx
knjq d xjlzwt, fxí htrt rj ant js jxyf xtqjifi, nshnyfit ij xz rjxrf
gjqqfvzjwíf fsyjx vzj ij rn mjwrtxzwf, vznxt fuwtajhmfwxj ij qf thfxnós
vzj, f xz ufwjhjw, jxytx djwrtx qj tkwjhífs; d, hts uthf ajwlüjsef d rjstx
yjrtw ij Intx sn wjxujyt rít, rj wjvznwnó ij frtwjx; d, anjsit vzj dt hts
kjfx d ozxyfx ufqfgwfx wjxutsiíf f qfx ijxajwlüjsefx ij xzx uwtuóxnytx,
ijoó fufwyj qtx wzjltx, ij vznjs uwnrjwt ujsxó fuwtajhmfwxj, d htrjseó f
zxfw ij qf kzjwef. Ujwt jq ozxyt hnjqt, vzj uthfx t snslzsfx ajhjx ijof ij
rnwfw d kfatwjhjw f qfx ozxyfx nsyjshntsjx, kfatwjhnó qfx rífx, ij rfsjwf
vzj hts rnx uthfx kzjwefx, d hts utht ywfgfot, in hts éq utw zs
ijwwzrgfijwt, itsij qj ijoé, sn xé xn rzjwyt t xn anat; d qzjlt, hts ráx
qnljwjef vzj rn xtgwjxfqyt d hfsxfshnt ujiífs, rj jsywé utw jxyfx rtsyfñfx,
xns qqjafw tywt ujsxfrnjsyt sn tywt inxnlsnt vzj jxhtsijwrj js jqqfx d mznw
ij rn ufiwj d ij fvzjqqtx vzj ij xz ufwyj rj fsifgfs gzxhfsit.

»Hts jxyj ijxjt, mf st xé hzásytx rjxjx vzj jsywé js jqqfx, itsij mfqqé zs
lfsfijwt vzj rj qqjaó utw xz hwnfit f zs qzlfw vzj jxyá js qfx jsywfñfx
ijxyf xnjwwf, fq hzfq mj xjwanit ij eflfq ytit jxyj ynjrut, uwthzwfsit
jxyfw xnjruwj js jq hfrut utw jshzgwnw jxytx hfgjqqtx vzj fmtwf, yfs xn
ujsxfwqt, rj mfs ijxhzgnjwyt. Ujwt ytif rn nsizxywnf d ytif rn xtqnhnyzi
kzj d mf xnit ij snslús uwtajhmt, uzjx rn frt anst js htsthnrnjsyt ij vzj
dt st jwf afwós, d sfhnó js éq jq rjxrt rfq ujsxfrnjsyt vzj js rn hwnfit;
d, htrt st xnjruwj qf ktwyzsf hts qtx ywfgfotx if qtx wjrjintx, st mfqqé
ijwwzrgfijwt sn gfwwfsht ij itsij ijxujñfw d ijxujsfw fq frt, htrt qj mfqqé
ufwf jq hwnfit; d fxí, yzaj utw rjstw nshtsajsnjsyj ijofqqj d fxhtsijwrj ij
szjat jsywj jxyfx fxujwjefx vzj uwtgfw hts éq rnx kzjwefx t rnx inxhzqufx.
Inlt, uzjx, vzj rj ytwsé f jrgtxhfw, d f gzxhfw itsij xns nrujinrjsyt
fqlzst uzinjxj hts xzxunwtx d qálwnrfx wtlfw fq hnjqt xj izjqf ij rn
ijxajsyzwf d rj ié nsizxywnf d kfatw ufwf xfqnw ijqqf, t ufwf ijofw qf anif
jsywj jxyfx xtqjifijx, xns vzj vzjij rjrtwnf ijxyf ywnxyj, vzj yfs xns
hzquf xzdf mfgwá ifit rfyjwnf ufwf vzj ij jqqf xj mfgqj d rzwrzwj js qf
xzdf d js qfx fojsfx ynjwwfx.»





Hfuíyzqt CCNC. Vzj ywfyf ij qf inxhwjhnós ij qf mjwrtxf Itwtyjf, hts tywfx
htxfx ij rzhmt lzxyt d ufxfynjrut


-Jxyf jx, xjñtwjx, qf ajwifijwf mnxytwnf ij rn ywfljinf: rnwfi d ozelfi
fmtwf xn qtx xzxunwtx vzj jxhzhmfxyjx, qfx ufqfgwfx vzj tíxyjx d qfx
qálwnrfx vzj ij rnx totx xfqífs, yjsífs thfxnós gfxyfsyj ufwf rtxywfwxj js
rfdtw fgzsifshnf; d, htsxnijwfif qf hfqnifi ij rn ijxlwfhnf, ajwénx vzj
xjwá js afst jq htsxzjqt, uzjx jx nrutxngqj jq wjrjint ijqqf. Xóqt tx wzjlt
(qt vzj hts kfhnqnifi utiwénx d ijgénx mfhjw) vzj rj fhtsxjoénx iósij utiwé
ufxfw qf anif xns vzj rj fhfgj jq yjrtw d xtgwjxfqyt vzj yjslt ij xjw
mfqqfif ij qtx vzj rj gzxhfs; vzj, fzsvzj xé vzj jq rzhmt frtw vzj rnx
ufiwjx rj ynjsjs rj fxjlzwf vzj xjwé ijqqtx gnjs wjhjgnif, jx yfsyf qf
ajwlüjsef vzj rj thzuf xóqt jq ujsxfw vzj, st htrt jqqtx ujsxfgfs, yjslt ij
ufwjhjw f xz uwjxjshnf, vzj yjslt utw rjotw ijxyjwwfwrj ufwf xnjruwj ij xjw
anxyf vzj st ajwqjx jq wtxywt, hts ujsxfrnjsyt vzj jqqtx rnwfs jq rít fojst
ij qf mtsjxynifi vzj ij rí xj ijgífs ij yjsjw uwtrjynif.

Hfqqó js inhnjsit jxyt, d jq wtxywt xj qj hzgwnó ij zs htqtw vzj rtxywó
gnjs hqfwt jq xjsynrnjsyt d ajwlüjsef ijq fqrf. Js qfx xzdfx xnsynjwts qtx
vzj jxhzhmfit qf mfgífs yfsyf qáxynrf htrt firnwfhnós ij xz ijxlwfhnf; d,
fzsvzj qzjlt vznxnjwf jq hzwf htsxtqfwqf d fhtsxjofwqf, ytró uwnrjwt qf
rfst Hfwijsnt, inhnjsit:

-Js kns, xjñtwf, vzj yú jwjx qf mjwrtxf Itwtyjf, qf mnof úsnhf ijq wnht
Hqjsfwit.

Firnwfif vzjió Itwtyjf hzfsit tdó jq strgwj ij xz ufiwj, d ij ajw hzás ij
utht jwf jq vzj qj strgwfgf, utwvzj df xj mf inhmt ij qf rfqf rfsjwf vzj
Hfwijsnt jxyfgf ajxynit; d fxí, qj inot:

-D ¿vznés xtnx atx, mjwrfst, vzj fxí xfgénx jq strgwj ij rn ufiwj? Utwvzj
dt, mfxyf fmtwf, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, js ytit jq inxhzwxt ijq hzjsyt ij rn
ijxinhmf st qj mj strgwfit.

-Xtd -wjxutsinó Hfwijsnt- fvzjq xns ajsyzwf vzj, xjlús atx, xjñtwf, mfgénx
inhmt, Qzxhnsif inot vzj jwf xz jxutxf. Xtd jq ijxinhmfit Hfwijsnt, f vznjs
jq rfq yéwrnst ij fvzjq vzj f atx tx mf uzjxyt js jq vzj jxyánx rj mf
ywfíit f vzj rj ajánx hzfq rj ajnx: wtyt, ijxszit, kfqyt ij ytit mzrfst
htsxzjqt d, qt vzj jx ujtw ij ytit, kfqyt ij oznhnt, uzjx st qj yjslt xnst
hzfsit fq hnjqt xj qj fsytof iáwrjqj utw fqlús gwjaj jxufhnt. Dt, Yjtitwf,
xtd jq vzj rj mfqqé uwjxjsyj f qfx xnswfetsjx ij its Kjwsfsit, d jq vzj
flzfwió tíw jq xí vzj ij xjw xz jxutxf uwtszshnó Qzxhnsif. Dt xtd jq vzj st
yzat ásnrt ufwf ajw js vzé ufwfgf xz ijxrfdt, sn qt vzj wjxzqyfgf ijq ufujq
vzj qj kzj mfqqfit js jq ujhmt, utwvzj st yzat jq fqrf xzkwnrnjsyt ufwf ajw
yfsyfx ijxajsyzwfx ozsyfx; d fxí, ijoé qf hfxf d qf ufhnjshnf, d zsf hfwyf
vzj ijoé f zs mzéxuji rít, f vznjs wtlzé vzj js rfstx ij Qzxhnsif qf
uzxnjxj, d aísjrj f jxyfx xtqjifijx, hts nsyjshnós ij fhfgfw js jqqfx qf
anif, vzj ijxij fvzjq uzsyt fgtwwjhí htrt rtwyfq jsjrnlf ríf. Rfx st mf
vzjwnit qf xzjwyj vznyáwrjqf, htsyjsyásitxj hts vznyfwrj jq oznhnt, vzneá
utw lzfwifwrj ufwf qf gzjsf ajsyzwf vzj mj yjsnit js mfqqfwtx; uzjx, xnjsit
ajwifi, htrt hwjt vzj qt jx, qt vzj fvzí mfgénx htsyfit, fús utiwíf xjw vzj
f jsywfrgtx stx yzanjxj jq hnjqt lzfwifit rjotw xzhjxt js szjxywtx
ijxfxywjx vzj stxtywtx ujsxfrtx. Utwvzj, uwjxzuzjxyt vzj Qzxhnsif st uzjij
hfxfwxj hts its Kjwsfsit, utw xjw ríf, sn its Kjwsfsit hts jqqf, utw xjw
azjxywt, d mfgjwqt jqqf yfs rfsnknjxyfrjsyj ijhqfwfit, gnjs utijrtx jxujwfw
vzj jq hnjqt stx wjxynyzdf qt vzj jx szjxywt, uzjx jxyá ytifaíf js xjw, d
st xj mf jsfojsfit sn ijxmjhmt. D, uzjx jxyj htsxzjqt yjsjrtx, sfhnit st ij
rzd wjrtyf jxujwfsef, sn kzsifit js ijxafwnfifx nrflnsfhntsjx, xzuqíhttx,
xjñtwf, vzj ytrénx tywf wjxtqzhnós js azjxywtx mtswfitx ujsxfrnjsytx, uzjx
dt qf unjsxt ytrfw js qtx rítx, fhtrtiásittx f jxujwfw rjotw ktwyzsf; vzj
dt tx ozwt, utw qf kj ij hfgfqqjwt d ij hwnxynfst, ij st ijxfrufwfwtx mfxyf
ajwtx js utijw ij its Kjwsfsit, d vzj, hzfsit hts wfetsjx st qj uzinjwj
fywfjw f vzj htstehf qt vzj tx ijgj, ij zxfw jsytshjx qf qngjwyfi vzj rj
htshjij jq xjw hfgfqqjwt, d utijw hts ozxyt yíyzqt ijxfknfqqj, js wfeós ij
qf xnswfeós vzj tx mfhj, xns fhtwifwrj ij rnx flwfantx, hzdf ajslfsef
ijofwé fq hnjqt utw fhzinw js qf ynjwwf f qtx azjxywtx.

Hts qt vzj Hfwijsnt inot xj fhfgó ij firnwfw Itwtyjf, d, utw st xfgjw vzé
lwfhnfx atqajw f yfs lwfsijx tkwjhnrnjsytx, vznxt ytrfwqj qtx unjx ufwf
gjxáwxjqtx; rfx st qt htsxnsynó Hfwijsnt, d jq qnhjshnfit wjxutsinó utw
jsywfrgtx, d fuwtgó jq gzjs inxhzwxt ij Hfwijsnt, d, xtgwj ytit, qjx wtló,
fhtsxjoó d ujwxzfinó vzj xj kzjxjs hts éq f xz fqijf, itsij xj utiwífs
wjufwfw ij qfx htxfx vzj qjx kfqyfgfs, d vzj fqqí xj ifwíf twijs hórt
gzxhfw f its Kjwsfsit, t hórt qqjafw f Itwtyjf f xzx ufiwjx, t mfhjw qt vzj
ráx qjx ufwjhnjxj htsajsnjsyj. Hfwijsnt d Itwtyjf xj qt flwfijhnjwts, d
fhjyfwts qf rjwhji vzj xj qjx tkwjhíf. Jq gfwgjwt, vzj f ytit mfgíf jxyfit
xzxujsxt d hfqqfit, mnet yfrgnés xz gzjsf uqáynhf d xj tkwjhnó hts st rjstx
atqzsyfi vzj jq hzwf f ytit fvzjqqt vzj kzjxj gzjst ufwf xjwanwqjx.
Htsyó fxnrjxrt hts gwjajifi qf hfzxf vzj fqqí qtx mfgíf ywfíit, hts qf
jxywfñjef ij qf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj, d hórt flzfwifgfs f xz jxhzijwt, vzj
mfgíf nit f gzxhfqqj. Aístxjqj f qf rjrtwnf f Hfwijsnt, htrt utw xzjñtx, qf
ujsijshnf vzj hts its Vznotyj mfgíf yjsnit d htsyóqf f qtx ijráx, rfx st
xzut ijhnw utw vzé hfzxf kzj xz vznxynós.

Js jxyt, tdjwts athjx, d htsthnjwts vzj jq vzj qfx ifgf jwf Xfshmt Ufsef,
vzj, utw st mfgjwqtx mfqqfit js jq qzlfw itsij qtx ijoó, qtx qqfrfgf f
athjx. Xfqnéwtsqj fq jshzjsywt, d, uwjlzsyásitqj utw its Vznotyj, qjx inot
hórt qj mfgíf mfqqfit ijxszit js hfrnxf, kqfht, frfwnqqt d rzjwyt ij
mfrgwj, d xzxunwfsit utw xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf; d vzj, uzjxyt vzj qj mfgíf
inhmt vzj jqqf qj rfsifgf vzj xfqnjxj ij fvzjq qzlfw d xj kzjxj fq ijq
Ytgtxt, itsij qj vzjifgf jxujwfsit, mfgíf wjxutsinit vzj jxyfgf ijyjwrnsfit
ij st ufwjhjw fsyj xz kjwrtxzwf kfxyf vzj mtgnjxj kjhmt kfefñfx vzj qj
knhnjxjs inlst ij xz lwfhnf. D vzj xn fvzjqqt ufxfgf fijqfsyj, htwwíf
ujqnlwt ij st ajsnw f xjw jrujwfitw, htrt jxyfgf tgqnlfit, sn fzs
fwetgnxut, vzj jwf qt rjstx vzj utiíf xjw. Utw jxt, vzj rnwfxjs qt vzj xj
mfgíf ij mfhjw ufwf xfhfwqj ij fqqí.

Jq qnhjshnfit qj wjxutsinó vzj st yzanjxj ujsf, vzj jqqtx qj xfhfwífs ij
fqqí, rfq vzj qj ujxfxj. Htsyó qzjlt f Hfwijsnt d f Itwtyjf qt vzj yjsífs
ujsxfit ufwf wjrjint ij its Vznotyj, f qt rjstx ufwf qqjafwqj f xz hfxf. F
qt hzfq inot Itwtyjf vzj jqqf mfwíf qf itshjqqf rjsjxyjwtxf rjotw vzj jq
gfwgjwt, d ráx, vzj yjsíf fqqí ajxynitx hts vzj mfhjwqt fq sfyzwfq, d vzj
qf ijofxjs jq hfwlt ij xfgjw wjuwjxjsyfw ytit fvzjqqt vzj kzjxj rjsjxyjw
ufwf qqjafw fijqfsyj xz nsyjsyt, utwvzj jqqf mfgíf qjíit rzhmtx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx d xfgíf gnjs jq jxynqt vzj yjsífs qfx itshjqqfx hznyfifx hzfsit
ujiífs xzx itsjx f qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx.

-Uzjx st jx rjsjxyjw ráx -inot jq hzwf- xnst vzj qzjlt xj utslf utw tgwf;
vzj, xns izif, qf gzjsf xzjwyj xj rzjxywf js kfatw szjxywt, uzjx, yfs xns
ujsxfwqt, f atxtywtx, xjñtwjx, xj tx mf htrjsefit f fgwnw uzjwyf ufwf
azjxywt wjrjint d f stxtywtx xj stx mf kfhnqnyfit qf vzj mfgífrtx rjsjxyjw.
Xfhó qzjlt Itwtyjf ij xz fqrtmfif zsf xfdf jsyjwf ij hnjwyf yjqnqqf wnhf d
zsf rfsyjqqnsf ij tywf anxytxf yjqf ajwij, d ij zsf hfonyf zs htqqfw d
tywfx otdfx, hts vzj js zs nsxyfsyj xj fitwsó ij rfsjwf vzj zsf wnhf d lwfs
xjñtwf ufwjhíf. Ytit fvzjqqt, d ráx, inot vzj mfgíf xfhfit ij xz hfxf ufwf
qt vzj xj tkwjhnjxj, d vzj mfxyf jsytshjx st xj qj mfgíf tkwjhnit thfxnós
ij mfgjqqt rjsjxyjw. F ytitx htsyjsyó js jxywjrt xz rzhmf lwfhnf, itsfnwj d
mjwrtxzwf, d htsknwrfwts f its Kjwsfsit utw ij utht htsthnrnjsyt, uzjx
yfsyf gjqqjef ijxjhmfgf.

Ujwt jq vzj ráx xj firnwó kzj Xfshmt Ufsef, utw ufwjhjwqj -htrt jwf fxí
ajwifi- vzj js ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif mfgíf anxyt yfs mjwrtxf hwnfyzwf;
d fxí, uwjlzsyó fq hzwf hts lwfsij fmísht qj inojxj vznés jwf fvzjqqf yfs
kjwrtxf xjñtwf, d vzé jwf qt vzj gzxhfgf utw fvzjqqtx fsizwwnfqjx.
-Jxyf mjwrtxf xjñtwf -wjxutsinó jq hzwf-, Xfshmt mjwrfst, jx, htrt vznjs st
inhj sfif, jx qf mjwjijwf utw qísjf wjhyf ij afwós ijq lwfs wjnst ij
Rnhtrnhós, qf hzfq anjsj js gzxhf ij azjxywt frt f ujinwqj zs its, jq hzfq
jx vzj qj ijxkflf zs yzjwyt t flwfant vzj zs rfq lnlfsyj qj ynjsj kjhmt; d,
f qf kfrf vzj ij gzjs hfgfqqjwt azjxywt frt ynjsj utw ytit qt ijxhzgnjwyt,
ij Lznsjf mf ajsnit f gzxhfwqj jxyf uwnshjxf.

-Inhmtxf gzxhfif d inhmtxt mfqqfelt -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt Ufsef-, d ráx
xn rn frt jx yfs ajsyzwtxt vzj ijxkflf jxj flwfant d jsijwjhj jxj yzjwyt,
rfyfsit f jxj mnijuzyf ijxj lnlfsyj vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj; vzj xí rfyfwá
xn éq qj jshzjsywf, xn df st kzjxj kfsyfxrf, vzj htsywf qfx kfsyfxrfx st
ynjsj rn xjñtw utijw fqlzst. Ujwt zsf htxf vznjwt xzuqnhfw f azjxywf
rjwhji, jsywj tywfx, xjñtw qnhjshnfit, d jx vzj, utwvzj f rn frt st qj ytrj
lfsf ij xjw fwetgnxut, vzj jx qt vzj dt yjrt, vzj azjxywf rjwhji qj
fhtsxjoj vzj xj hfxj qzjlt hts jxyf uwnshjxf, d fxí vzjifwá nrutxngnqnyfit
ij wjhjgnw ówijsjx fwetgnxufqjx d ajsiwá hts kfhnqnifi f xz nrujwnt d dt fq
kns ij rnx ijxjtx; vzj dt mj rnwfit gnjs js jqqt d mfqqt utw rn hzjsyf vzj
st rj jxyá gnjs vzj rn frt xjf fwetgnxut, utwvzj dt xtd nsúynq ufwf qf
Nlqjxnf, uzjx xtd hfxfit, d fsifwrj fmtwf f ywfjw inxujsxfhntsjx ufwf utijw
yjsjw wjsyf utw qf Nlqjxnf, yjsnjsit, htrt yjslt, rzojw d mnotx, xjwíf
szshf fhfgfw. Fxí vzj, xjñtw, ytit jq ytvzj jxyá js vzj rn frt xj hfxj
qzjlt hts jxyf xjñtwf, vzj mfxyf fmtwf st xé xz lwfhnf, d fxí, st qf qqfrt
utw xz strgwj.

-Qqárfxj -wjxutsinó jq hzwf- qf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf, utwvzj, qqfrásitxj xz
wjnst Rnhtrnhós, hqfwt jxyá vzj jqqf xj mf ij qqfrfw fxí.

-St mfd izif js jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj dt mj anxyt f rzhmtx ytrfw jq
fujqqnit d fqhzwsnf ijq qzlfw itsij sfhnjwts, qqfrásitxj Ujiwt ij Fqhfqá,
Ozfs ij Úgjif d Injlt ij Afqqfitqni; d jxyt rjxrt xj ijgj ij zxfw fqqá js
Lznsjf: ytrfw qfx wjnsfx qtx strgwjx ij xzx wjnstx.

-Fxí ijgj ij xjw -inot jq hzwf-; d js qt ijq hfxfwxj azjxywt frt, dt mfwé
js jqqt ytitx rnx utijwítx.

Hts qt vzj vzjió yfs htsyjsyt Xfshmt hzfsyt jq hzwf firnwfit ij xz
xnruqnhnifi, d ij ajw hzás jshfofitx yjsíf js qf kfsyfxíf qtx rjxrtx
inxufwfyjx vzj xz frt, uzjx xns fqlzsf izif xj ifgf f jsyjsijw vzj mfgíf ij
ajsnw f xjw jrujwfitw.

Df, js jxyt, xj mfgíf uzjxyt Itwtyjf xtgwj qf rzqf ijq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt xj
mfgíf fhtrtifit fq wtxywt qf gfwgf ij qf htqf ij gzjd, d inojwts f Xfshmt
vzj qtx lznfxj fitsij its Vznotyj jxyfgf; fq hzfq fianwynjwts vzj st inojxj
vzj htsthíf fq qnhjshnfit sn fq gfwgjwt, utwvzj js st htsthjwqtx htsxnxyíf
ytit jq ytvzj ij ajsnw f xjw jrujwfitw xz frt; uzjxyt vzj sn jq hzwf sn
Hfwijsnt vznxnjwts nw hts jqqtx, utwvzj st xj qj fhtwifxj f its Vznotyj qf
ujsijshnf vzj hts Hfwijsnt mfgíf yjsnit, d jq hzwf utwvzj st jwf rjsjxyjw
utw jsytshjx xz uwjxjshnf. D fxí, qtx ijofwts nw ijqfsyj, d jqqtx qtx
kzjwts xnlznjsit f unj, utht f utht. St ijoó ij fanxfw jq hzwf qt vzj mfgíf
ij mfhjw Itwtyjf; f qt vzj jqqf inot vzj ijxhznifxjs, vzj ytit xj mfwíf,
xns kfqyfw uzsyt, htrt qt ujiífs d unsyfgfs qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx.
Ywjx hzfwytx ij qjlzf mfgwífs fsifit, hzfsit ijxhzgwnjwts f its Vznotyj
jsywj zsfx nsywnhfifx ujñfx, df ajxynit, fzsvzj st fwrfit; d, fxí htrt
Itwtyjf qj ant d kzj nsktwrfif ij Xfshmt vzj fvzéq jwf its Vznotyj, int ijq
fetyj f xz ufqfkwés, xnlznésitqj jq gnjs gfwgfit gfwgjwt. D, js qqjlfsit
ozsyt f éq, jq jxhzijwt xj fwwtoó ij qf rzqf d kzj f ytrfw js qtx gwfetx f
Itwtyjf, qf hzfq, fujásitxj hts lwfsij ijxjsatqyzwf, xj kzj f mnshfw ij
wtinqqfx fsyj qfx ij its Vznotyj; d, fzsvzj éq uzlsfgf utw qjafsyfwqf,
jqqf, xns qjafsyfwxj, qj kfgqó js jxyf lznxf:

-Ij fvzí st rj qjafsyfwé, ¡tm afqjwtxt d jxktwefit hfgfqqjwt!, kfxyf vzj qf
azjxywf gtsifi d htwyjxíf rj tytwlzj zs its, jq hzfq wjizsifwá js mtswf d
uwje ij azjxywf ujwxtsf, d js uwt ij qf ráx ijxhtsxtqfif d flwfanfif
itshjqqf vzj jq xtq mf anxyt. D xn jx vzj jq afqtw ij azjxywt kzjwyj gwfet
htwwjxutsij f qf ate ij azjxywf nsrtwyfq kfrf, tgqnlfit jxyánx f kfatwjhjw
f qf xns ajsyzwf vzj ij yfs qzjñjx ynjwwfx anjsj, fq tqtw ij azjxywt kfrtxt
strgwj, gzxhásittx ufwf wjrjint ij xzx ijxinhmfx.

-St tx wjxutsijwé ufqfgwf, kjwrtxf xjñtwf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, sn tnwé
ráx htxf ij azjxywf kfhnjsif, kfxyf vzj tx qjafsyénx ij ynjwwf.

-St rj qjafsyfwé, xjñtw -wjxutsinó qf fkqnlnif itshjqqf-, xn uwnrjwt, utw
qf azjxywf htwyjxíf, st rj jx tytwlfit jq its vzj unit.

-Dt atx qj tytwlt d htshjit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, htrt st xj mfdf ij
hzruqnw js ifñt t rjslzf ij rn wjd, ij rn ufywnf d ij fvzjqqf vzj ij rn
htwfeós d qngjwyfi ynjsj qf qqfaj.

-St xjwá js ifñt sn js rjslzf ij qtx vzj ijhíx, rn gzjs xjñtw -wjuqnhó qf
itqtwtxf itshjqqf.

D, jxyfsit js jxyt, xj qqjló Xfshmt Ufsef fq tíit ij xz xjñtw d rzd ufxnyt
qj inot:

-Gnjs uzjij azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw, htshjijwqj jq its vzj unij, vzj st jx
htxf ij sfif: xóqt jx rfyfw f zs lnlfsyfet, d jxyf vzj qt unij jx qf fqyf
uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf, wjnsf ijq lwfs wjnst Rnhtrnhós ij Jyntuíf.

-Xjf vznjs kzjwj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj dt mfwé qt vzj xtd tgqnlfit d
qt vzj rj inhyf rn htshnjshnf, htsktwrj f qt vzj uwtkjxfit yjslt.

D, atqanésitxj f qf itshjqqf, inot:

-Qf azjxywf lwfs kjwrtxzwf xj qjafsyj, vzj dt qj tytwlt jq its vzj ujinwrj
vznxnjwj.

-Uzjx jq vzj unit jx -inot qf itshjqqf- vzj qf azjxywf rflsásnrf ujwxtsf xj
ajslf qzjlt htsrnlt itsij dt qj qqjafwj, d rj uwtrjyf vzj st xj mf ij
jsywjrjyjw js tywf fajsyzwf sn ijrfsif fqlzsf mfxyf ifwrj ajslfsef ij zs
ywfnitw vzj, htsywf ytit ijwjhmt inanst d mzrfst, rj ynjsj zxzwufit rn
wjnst.

-Inlt vzj fxí qt tytwlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d fxí utiénx, xjñtwf,
ijxij mtd ráx, ijxjhmfw qf rfqjshtsíf vzj tx kfynlf d mfhjw vzj htgwj
szjatx gwítx d kzjwefx azjxywf ijxrfdfif jxujwfsef; vzj, hts jq fdzif ij
Intx d qf ij rn gwfet, atx tx ajwénx uwjxyt wjxynyznif js azjxywt wjnst d
xjsyfif js qf xnqqf ij azjxywt fsynlzt d lwfsij jxyfit, f ujxfw d f
ijxujhmt ij qtx ktqqtsjx vzj htsywfijhnwqt vznxnjwjs. D rfstx f qfgtw, vzj
js qf yfwifsef inhjs vzj xzjqj jxyfw jq ujqnlwt.

Qf rjsjxyjwtxf itshjqqf uzlsó, hts rzhmf utwkíf, utw gjxfwqj qfx rfstx, rfx
its Vznotyj, vzj js ytit jwf htrjinit d htwyéx hfgfqqjwt, ofráx qt
htsxnsynó; fsyjx, qf mnet qjafsyfw d qf fgwfeó hts rzhmf htwyjxíf d
htrjinrnjsyt, d rfsió f Xfshmt vzj wjvznwnjxj qfx hnshmfx f Wthnsfsyj d qj
fwrfxj qzjlt fq uzsyt. Xfshmt ijxhtqló qfx fwrfx, vzj, htrt ywtkjt, ij zs
áwgtq jxyfgfs ujsinjsyjx, d, wjvznwnjsit qfx hnshmfx, js zs uzsyt fwró f xz
xjñtw; jq hzfq, anésitxj fwrfit, inot:

-Afrtx ij fvzí, js jq strgwj ij Intx, f kfatwjhjw jxyf lwfs xjñtwf.
Jxyágfxj jq gfwgjwt fús ij wtinqqfx, yjsnjsit lwfs hzjsyf ij inxnrzqfw qf
wnxf d ij vzj st xj qj hfdjxj qf gfwgf, hts hzdf hfíif vzneá vzjifwfs ytitx
xns htsxjlznw xz gzjsf nsyjshnós; d, anjsit vzj df jq its jxyfgf htshjinit
d hts qf inqnljshnf vzj its Vznotyj xj fqnxyfgf ufwf nw f hzruqnwqj, xj
qjafsyó d ytró ij qf tywf rfst f xz xjñtwf, d jsywj qtx itx qf xzgnjwts js
qf rzqf. Qzjlt xzgnó its Vznotyj xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, d jq gfwgjwt xj fhtrtió
js xz hfgfqlfizwf, vzjiásitxj Xfshmt f unj, itsij ij szjat xj qj wjstaó qf
uéwinif ijq wzhnt, hts qf kfqyf vzj jsytshjx qj mfhíf; rfx ytit qt qqjafgf
hts lzxyt, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj df xz xjñtw jxyfgf uzjxyt js hfrnst, d rzd f
unvzj, ij xjw jrujwfitw; utwvzj xns izif fqlzsf ujsxfgf vzj xj mfgíf ij
hfxfw hts fvzjqqf uwnshjxf, d xjw, utw qt rjstx, wjd ij Rnhtrnhós. Xóqt qj
ifgf ujxfizrgwj jq ujsxfw vzj fvzjq wjnst jwf js ynjwwf ij sjlwtx, d vzj qf
ljsyj vzj utw xzx afxfqqtx qj injxjs mfgífs ij xjw ytitx sjlwtx; f qt hzfq
mnet qzjlt js xz nrflnsfhnós zs gzjs wjrjint, d iíotxj f xí rnxrt:
-¿Vzé xj rj if f rí vzj rnx afxfqqtx xjfs sjlwtx? ¿Mfgwá ráx vzj hfwlfw hts
jqqtx d ywfjwqtx f Jxufñf, itsij qtx utiwé ajsijw, d fitsij rj qtx uflfwás
ij htsyfit, ij hzdt insjwt utiwé htruwfw fqlús yíyzqt t fqlús tknhnt hts
vzj ananw ijxhfsxfit ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif? ¡St, xnst itwrítx, d st
yjslánx nsljsnt sn mfgnqnifi ufwf inxutsjw ij qfx htxfx d ufwf ajsijw
ywjnsyf t inje rnq afxfqqtx js iáhfrj jxfx ufofx! Ufw Intx vzj qtx mj ij
atqfw, hmnht hts lwfsij, t htrt uzinjwj, d vzj, utw sjlwtx vzj xjfs, qtx mj
ij atqajw gqfshtx t frfwnqqtx. ¡Qqjlftx, vzj rj rfrt jq ijit!

Hts jxyt, fsifgf yfs xtqíhnyt d yfs htsyjsyt vzj xj qj tqanifgf qf
ujxfizrgwj ij hfrnsfw f unj.

Ytit jxyt rnwfgfs ij jsywj zsfx gwjñfx Hfwijsnt d jq hzwf, d st xfgífs vzé
mfhjwxj ufwf ozsyfwxj hts jqqtx; ujwt jq hzwf, vzj jwf lwfs ywfhnxyf,
nrflnsó qzjlt qt vzj mfwífs ufwf htsxjlznw qt vzj ijxjfgfs; d kzj vzj hts
zsfx ynojwfx vzj ywfíf js zs jxyzhmj vznyó hts rzhmf uwjxyjef qf gfwgf f
Hfwijsnt, d anxynóqj zs hfutynqqt ufwit vzj éq ywfíf d intqj zs mjwwjwzjqt
sjlwt, d éq xj vzjió js hfqefx d js ozgós; d vzjió yfs tywt ij qt vzj fsyjx
ufwjhíf Hfwijsnt, vzj éq rjxrt st xj htsthnjwf, fzsvzj f zs jxujot xj
rnwfwf. Mjhmt jxyt, uzjxyt df vzj qtx tywtx mfgífs ufxfit fijqfsyj js yfsyt
vzj jqqtx xj inxkwfefwts, hts kfhnqnifi xfqnjwts fq hfrnst wjfq fsyjx vzj
jqqtx, utwvzj qfx rfqjefx d rfqtx ufxtx ij fvzjqqtx qzlfwjx st htshjiífs
vzj fsizanjxjs yfsyt qtx ij f hfgfqqt htrt qtx ij f unj. Js jkjyt, jqqtx xj
uzxnjwts js jq qqfst, f qf xfqnif ij qf xnjwwf, d, fxí htrt xfqnó ijqqf its
Vznotyj d xzx hfrfwfifx, jq hzwf xj qj uzxt f rnwfw rzd ij jxufhnt, ifsit
xjñfqjx ij vzj qj ngf wjhtsthnjsit; d, fq hfgt ij mfgjwqj zsf gzjsf unjef
jxyfit rnwfsit, xj kzj f éq fgnjwytx qtx gwfetx d inhnjsit f athjx:
-Ufwf gnjs xjf mfqqfit jq jxujot ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, jq rn gzjs htrufywntyj
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, qf kqtw d qf sfyf ij qf ljsynqjef, jq frufwt d
wjrjint ij qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx, qf vznsyfjxjshnf ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx.
D, inhnjsit jxyt, yjsíf fgwfefit utw qf wtinqqf ij qf unjwsf nevznjwif f
its Vznotyj; jq hzfq, jxufsyfit ij qt vzj ajíf d tíf ijhnw d mfhjw fvzjq
mtrgwj, xj qj uzxt f rnwfw hts fyjshnós, d, fq kns, qj htsthnó d vzjió htrt
jxufsyfit ij ajwqj, d mnet lwfsij kzjwef utw fujfwxj; rfx jq hzwf st qt
htsxnsynó, utw qt hzfq its Vznotyj ijhíf:

-Iéojrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw qnhjshnfit, vzj st jx wfeós vzj dt jxyé f
hfgfqqt, d zsf yfs wjajwjsif ujwxtsf htrt azjxywf rjwhji jxyé f unj.
-Jxt st htsxjsynwé dt js snslús rtit -inot jq hzwf-: jxyéxj qf azjxywf
lwfsijef f hfgfqqt, uzjx jxyfsit f hfgfqqt fhfgf qfx rfdtwjx kfefñfx d
fajsyzwfx vzj js szjxywf jifi xj mfs anxyt; vzj f rí, fzsvzj nsinlst
xfhjwityj, gfxyfwárj xzgnw js qfx fshfx ij zsf ijxyfx rzqfx ijxytx xjñtwjx
vzj hts azjxywf rjwhji hfrnsfs, xn st qt mfs utw jstot. D fzs mfwé hzjsyf
vzj atd hfgfqqjwt xtgwj jq hfgfqqt Ujlfxt, t xtgwj qf hjgwf t fqkfsf js vzj
hfgfqlfgf fvzjq kfrtxt rtwt Rzefwfvzj, vzj fús mfxyf fmtwf dfhj jshfsyfit
js qf lwfs hzjxyf Ezqjrf, vzj inxyf utht ij qf lwfs Htruqzyt.

-Fús st hfíf dt js yfsyt, rn xjñtw qnhjshnfit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d dt
xé vzj rn xjñtwf qf uwnshjxf xjwá xjwanif, utw rn frtw, ij rfsifw f xz
jxhzijwt ié f azjxywf rjwhji qf xnqqf ij xz rzqf, vzj éq utiwá fhtrtifwxj
js qfx fshfx, xn jx vzj jqqf qfx xzkwj.

-Xí xzkwj, f qt vzj dt hwjt -wjxutsinó qf uwnshjxf-; d yfrgnés xé vzj st
xjwá rjsjxyjw rfsiáwxjqt fq xjñtw rn jxhzijwt, vzj éq jx yfs htwyéx d yfs
htwyjxfst vzj st htsxjsynwá vzj zsf ujwxtsf jhqjxnáxynhf afdf f unj,
uzinjsit nw f hfgfqqt.

-Fxí jx -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt.

D, fujásitxj js zs uzsyt, htsanió fq hzwf hts qf xnqqf, d éq qf ytró xns
mfhjwxj rzhmt ij wtlfw. D kzj jq rfq vzj fq xzgnw f qfx fshfx jq gfwgjwt,
qf rzqf, vzj, js jkjyt, jwf ij fqvznqjw, vzj ufwf ijhnw vzj jwf rfqf jxyt
gfxyf, fqeó zs utht qtx hzfwytx ywfxjwtx d int itx hthjx js jq fnwj, vzj, f
ifwqfx js jq ujhmt ij rfjxj Snhtqáx, t js qf hfgjef, éq injwf fq infgqt qf
ajsnif utw its Vznotyj. Hts ytit jxt, qj xtgwjxfqyfwts ij rfsjwf vzj hfdó
js jq xzjqt, hts yfs utht hznifit ij qfx gfwgfx, vzj xj qj hfdjwts js jq
xzjqt; d, htrt xj ant xns jqqfx, st yzat tywt wjrjint xnst fhzinw f
hzgwnwxj jq wtxywt hts frgfx rfstx d f vzjofwxj vzj qj mfgífs ijwwngfit qfx
rzjqfx. Its Vznotyj, htrt ant ytit fvzjq rfet ij gfwgfx, xns vznofifx d xns
xfslwj, qjotx ijq wtxywt ijq jxhzijwt hfíit, inot:

-¡Anaj Intx, vzj jx lwfs rnqflwt éxyj! ¡Qfx gfwgfx qj mf ijwwngfit d
fwwfshfit ijq wtxywt, htrt xn qfx vznyfwfs futxyf!

Jq hzwf, vzj ant jq ujqnlwt vzj htwwíf xz nsajshnós ij xjw ijxhzgnjwyf,
fhzinó qzjlt f qfx gfwgfx d kzjxj hts jqqfx fitsij dfhíf rfjxj Snhtqáx,
ifsit fús athjx ytifaíf, d ij zs ltquj, qqjlásitqj qf hfgjef f xz ujhmt, xj
qfx uzxt, rzwrzwfsit xtgwj éq zsfx ufqfgwfx, vzj inot vzj jwf hnjwyt
jsxfqrt fuwtunfit ufwf ujlfw gfwgfx, htrt qt ajwífs; d, hzfsit xj qfx yzat
uzjxyfx, xj fufwyó, d vzjió jq jxhzijwt yfs gnjs gfwgfit d yfs xfst htrt ij
fsyjx, ij vzj xj firnwó its Vznotyj xtgwjrfsjwf, d wtló fq hzwf vzj hzfsit
yzanjxj qzlfw qj jsxjñfxj fvzjq jsxfqrt; vzj éq jsyjsiíf vzj xz anwyzi f
ráx vzj ujlfw gfwgfx xj ijgíf ij jxyjsijw, uzjx jxyfgf hqfwt vzj ij itsij
qfx gfwgfx xj vznyfxjs mfgíf ij vzjifw qf hfwsj qqflfif d rfqywjhmf, d vzj,
uzjx ytit qt xfsfgf, f ráx vzj gfwgfx fuwtajhmfgf.

-Fxí jx -inot jq hzwf, d uwtrjynó ij jsxjñáwxjqj js qf uwnrjwf thfxnós.
Htshjwyáwtsxj vzj utw jsytshjx xzgnjxj jq hzwf, d f ywjhmtx xj kzjxjs qtx
ywjx rzifsit, mfxyf vzj qqjlfxjs f qf ajsyf, vzj jxyfwíf mfxyf itx qjlzfx
ij fqqí. Uzjxytx qtx ywjx f hfgfqqt, jx f xfgjw, its Vznotyj, qf uwnshjxf d
jq hzwf, d qtx ywjx f unj, Hfwijsnt, jq gfwgjwt d Xfshmt Ufsef, its Vznotyj
inot f qf itshjqqf:

-Azjxywf lwfsijef, xjñtwf ríf, lzíj utw itsij ráx lzxyt qj injwj.

D, fsyjx vzj jqqf wjxutsinjxj, inot jq qnhjshnfit:

-¿Mfhnf vzé wjnst vznjwj lznfw qf azjxywf xjñtwíf? ¿Jx, utw ajsyzwf, mfhnf
jq ij Rnhtrnhós?; vzj xí ijgj ij xjw, t dt xé utht ij wjnstx.

Jqqf, vzj jxyfgf gnjs js ytit, jsyjsinó vzj mfgíf ij wjxutsijw vzj xí; d
fxí, inot:

-Xí, xjñtw, mfhnf jxj wjnst jx rn hfrnst.

-Xn fxí jx -inot jq hzwf-, utw qf rnyfi ij rn uzjgqt mjrtx ij ufxfw, d ij
fqqí ytrfwá azjxywf rjwhji qf ijwwtyf ij Hfwyfljsf, itsij xj utiwá jrgfwhfw
hts qf gzjsf ajsyzwf; d xn mfd anjsyt uwóxujwt, rfw ywfsvznqt d xns
gtwwfxhf, js utht rjstx ij szjaj fñtx xj utiwá jxyfw f anxyf ij qf lwfs
qflzsf Rjtsf, inlt, Rjóynijx, vzj jxyá utht ráx ij hnjs otwsfifx ráx fhá
ijq wjnst ij azjxywf lwfsijef.

-Azjxywf rjwhji jxyá jslfñfit, xjñtw rít -inot jqqf-, utwvzj st mf itx fñtx
vzj dt ufwyí iéq, d js ajwifi vzj szshf yzaj gzjs ynjrut, d, hts ytit jxt,
mj qqjlfit f ajw qt vzj yfsyt ijxjfgf, vzj jx fq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, hzdfx szjafx qqjlfwts f rnx tíitx fxí htrt uzxj qtx unjx js Jxufñf,
d jqqfx rj rtanjwts f gzxhfwqj, ufwf jshtrjsifwrj js xz htwyjxíf d knfw rn
ozxynhnf ijq afqtw ij xz nsajshngqj gwfet.

-St ráx: hjxjs rnx fqfgfsefx -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, utwvzj xtd
jsjrnlt ij ytit lésjwt ij fizqfhnós; d, fzsvzj éxyf st qt xjf, ytifaíf
tkjsijs rnx hfxyfx twjofx xjrjofsyjx uqáynhfx. Qt vzj dt xé ijhnw, xjñtwf
ríf, vzj twf yjslf afqtw t st, jq vzj yzanjwj t st yzanjwj xj mf ij jruqjfw
js azjxywt xjwanhnt mfxyf ujwijw qf anif; d fxí, ijofsit jxyt ufwf xz
ynjrut, wzjlt fq xjñtw qnhjshnfit rj inlf vzé jx qf hfzxf vzj qj mf ywfíit
utw jxyfx ufwyjx, yfs xtqt, d yfs xns hwnfitx, d yfs f qf qnljwf, vzj rj
utsj jxufsyt.

-F jxt dt wjxutsijwé hts gwjajifi -wjxutsinó jq hzwf-, utwvzj xfgwá azjxywf
rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj dt d rfjxj Snhtqáx, szjxywt frnlt d szjxywt
gfwgjwt, ígfrtx f Xjanqqf f htgwfw hnjwyt insjwt vzj zs ufwnjsyj rít vzj mf
rzhmtx fñtx vzj ufxó f Nsinfx rj mfgíf jsanfit, d st yfs uthtx vzj st ufxfs
ij xjxjsyf rnq ujxtx jsxfdfitx, vzj jx tywt vzj yfq; d, ufxfsit fdjw utw
jxytx qzlfwjx, stx xfqnjwts fq jshzjsywt hzfywt xfqyjfitwjx d stx vznyfwts
mfxyf qfx gfwgfx; d ij rtit stx qfx vznyfwts, vzj qj htsanst fq gfwgjwt
utséwxjqfx utxynefx; d fzs f jxyj rfshjgt vzj fvzí af -xjñfqfsit f
Hfwijsnt- qj uzxnjwts htrt ij szjat. D jx qt gzjst vzj jx uúgqnhf kfrf utw
ytitx jxytx htsytwstx vzj qtx vzj stx xfqyjfwts xts ij zstx lfqjtyjx vzj
inhjs vzj qngjwyó, hfxn js jxyj rjxrt xnynt, zs mtrgwj yfs afqnjsyj vzj, f
ujxfw ijq htrnxfwnt d ij qfx lzfwifx, qtx xtqyó f ytitx; d, xns izif
fqlzsf, éq ijgíf ij jxyfw kzjwf ij oznhnt, t ijgj ij xjw yfs lwfsij gjqqfht
htrt jqqtx, t fqlús mtrgwj xns fqrf d xns htshnjshnf, uzjx vznxt xtqyfw fq
qtgt jsywj qfx tajofx, f qf wfutxf jsywj qfx lfqqnsfx, f qf rtxhf jsywj qf
rnjq; vznxt ijkwfzifw qf ozxynhnf, nw htsywf xz wjd d xjñtw sfyzwfq, uzjx
kzj htsywf xzx ozxytx rfsifrnjsytx. Vznxt, inlt, vznyfw f qfx lfqjwfx xzx
unjx, utsjw js fqgtwtyt f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi, vzj mfgíf rzhmtx fñtx vzj
wjutxfgf; vznxt, knsfqrjsyj, mfhjw zs mjhmt utw itsij xj unjwif xz fqrf d
st xj lfsj xz hzjwut.

Mfgífqjx htsyfit Xfshmt fq hzwf d fq gfwgjwt qf fajsyzwf ij qtx lfqjtyjx,
vzj fhfgó xz frt hts yfsyf lqtwnf xzdf, d utw jxyt hfwlfgf qf rfst jq hzwf
wjknwnésitqf, utw ajw qt vzj mfhíf t ijhíf its Vznotyj; fq hzfq xj qj
rzifgf qf htqtw f hfif ufqfgwf, d st txfgf ijhnw vzj éq mfgíf xnit jq
qngjwyfitw ij fvzjqqf gzjsf ljsyj.

-Éxytx, uzjx -inot jq hzwf-, kzjwts qtx vzj stx wtgfwts; vzj Intx, utw xz
rnxjwnhtwinf, xj qt ujwitsj fq vzj st qtx ijoó qqjafw fq ijgnit xzuqnhnt.





Hfuíyzqt CCC. Vzj ywfyf ijq lwfhntxt fwynknhnt d twijs vzj xj yzat js xfhfw
f szjxywt jsfrtwfit hfgfqqjwt ij qf fxujwíxnrf ujsnyjshnf js vzj xj mfgíf
uzjxyt


St mzgt gnjs fhfgfit jq hzwf, hzfsit Xfshmt inot:

-Uzjx ríf kj, xjñtw qnhjshnfit, jq vzj mnet jxf kfefñf kzj rn frt, d st
utwvzj dt st qj inoj fsyjx d qj fanxé vzj rnwfxj qt vzj mfhíf, d vzj jwf
ujhfit ifwqjx qngjwyfi, utwvzj ytitx ngfs fqqí utw lwfsiíxnrtx gjqqfhtx.
-¡Rfofijwt! -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, f qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx st
qjx ythf sn fyfñj fajwnlzfw xn qtx fkqnlnitx, jshfijsfitx d tuwjxtx vzj
jshzjsywfs utw qtx hfrnstx afs ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf, t jxyás js fvzjqqf
fslzxynf, utw xzx hzqufx t utw xzx lwfhnfx; xóqt qj ythf fdzifwqjx htrt f
rjsjxyjwtxtx, utsnjsit qtx totx js xzx ujsfx d st js xzx gjqqfvzjwífx. Dt
ytué zs wtxfwnt d xfwyf ij ljsyj rtmísf d ijxinhmfif, d mnhj hts jqqtx qt
vzj rn wjqnlnós rj unij, d qt ijráx fqqá xj fajslf; d f vznjs rfq qj mf
ufwjhnit, xfqat qf xfsyf inlsnifi ijq xjñtw qnhjshnfit d xz mtswfif
ujwxtsf, inlt vzj xfgj utht ij fhmfvzj ij hfgfqqjwíf, d vzj rnjsyj htrt zs
mnijuzyf d rfq sfhnit; d jxyt qj mfwé htsthjw hts rn jxufif, itsij ráx
qfwlfrjsyj xj htsynjsj.

D jxyt inot fknwrásitxj js qtx jxywngtx d hfqásitxj jq rtwwnós; utwvzj qf
gfhíf ij gfwgjwt, vzj f xz hzjsyf jwf jq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst, qqjafgf htqlfit
ijq fweós ijqfsyjwt, mfxyf fitgfwqf ijq rfq ywfyfrnjsyt vzj qf mnhnjwts qtx
lfqjtyjx.

Itwtyjf, vzj jwf inxhwjyf d ij lwfs itsfnwj, htrt vznjs df xfgíf jq
rjslzfit mzrtw ij its Vznotyj d vzj ytitx mfhífs gzwqf iéq, xnst Xfshmt
Ufsef, st vznxt xjw ufwf rjstx, d, anésitqj yfs jstofit, qj inot:
-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, rnérgwjxjqj f qf azjxywf rjwhji jq its vzj rj ynjsj
uwtrjynit, d vzj, htsktwrj f éq, st uzjij jsywjrjyjwxj js tywf fajsyzwf,
utw zwljsyj vzj xjf; xtxnjlzj azjxywf rjwhji jq ujhmt, vzj xn jq xjñtw
qnhjshnfit xzunjwf vzj utw jxj nsanhyt gwfet mfgífs xnit qngwfitx qtx
lfqjtyjx, éq xj injwf ywjx uzsytx js qf gthf, d fzs xj rtwinjwf ywjx ajhjx
qf qjslzf, fsyjx vzj mfgjw inhmt ufqfgwf vzj js ijxujhmt ij azjxywf rjwhji
wjizsifwf.

-Jxt ozwt dt gnjs -inot jq hzwf-, d fzs rj mzgnjwf vznyfit zs gnltyj.
-Dt hfqqfwé, xjñtwf ríf -inot its Vznotyj-, d wjuwnrnwé qf ozxyf hóqjwf vzj
df js rn ujhmt xj mfgíf qjafsyfit, d nwé vznjyt d ufhíknht mfxyf yfsyt vzj
tx hzruqf jq its uwtrjynit; ujwt, js uflt ijxyj gzjs ijxjt, tx xzuqnht rj
inlánx, xn st xj tx mfhj ij rfq, hzáq jx qf azjxywf hznyf d hzásyfx,
vznésjx d hzáqjx xts qfx ujwxtsfx ij vznjs tx yjslt ij ifw ijgnif,
xfynxkjhmf d jsyjwf ajslfsef.

-Jxt mfwé dt ij lfsf -wjxutsinó Itwtyjf-, xn jx vzj st tx jskfifs tíw
qáxynrfx d ijxlwfhnfx.

-St jskfifwá, xjñtwf ríf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Itwtyjf:

-Uzjx fxí jx, jxyésrj azjxywfx rjwhjijx fyjsytx.

St mzgt jqqf inhmt jxyt, hzfsit Hfwijsnt d jq gfwgjwt xj qj uzxnjwts fq
qfit, ijxjtxtx ij ajw hórt knslíf xz mnxytwnf qf inxhwjyf Itwtyjf; d qt
rnxrt mnet Xfshmt, vzj yfs jslfñfit ngf hts jqqf htrt xz frt. D jqqf,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj uzjxyt gnjs js qf xnqqf d uwjajsíitxj hts ytxjw d mfhjw
tywtx fijrfsjx, hts rzhmt itsfnwj, htrjseó f ijhnw ijxyf rfsjwf:
-«Uwnrjwfrjsyj, vznjwt vzj azjxywfx rjwhjijx xjufs, xjñtwjx rítx, vzj f rí
rj qqfrfs...»

D ijyúatxj fvzí zs utht, utwvzj xj qj tqanió jq strgwj vzj jq hzwf qj mfgíf
uzjxyt; ujwt éq fhzinó fq wjrjint, utwvzj jsyjsinó js qt vzj wjufwfgf, d
inot:

-St jx rfwfanqqf, xjñtwf ríf, vzj qf azjxywf lwfsijef xj yzwgj d jrufhmj
htsyfsit xzx ijxajsyzwfx, vzj jqqfx xzjqjs xjw yfqjx, vzj rzhmfx ajhjx
vznyfs qf rjrtwnf f qtx vzj rfqywfyfs, ij yfq rfsjwf vzj fzs ij xzx rjxrtx
strgwjx st xj qjx fhzjwif, htrt mfs mjhmt hts azjxywf lwfs xjñtwíf, vzj xj
mf tqanifit vzj xj qqfrf qf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf, qjlíynrf mjwjijwf ijq lwfs
wjnst Rnhtrnhós; d hts jxyj fuzsyfrnjsyt uzjij qf azjxywf lwfsijef wjizhnw
fmtwf káhnqrjsyj f xz qfxynrfif rjrtwnf ytit fvzjqqt vzj htsyfw vznxnjwj.
-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó qf itshjqqf-, d ijxij fvzí fijqfsyj hwjt vzj
st xjwá rjsjxyjw fuzsyfwrj sfif, vzj dt xfqiwé f gzjs uzjwyt hts rn
ajwifijwf mnxytwnf. «Qf hzfq jx vzj jq wjd rn ufiwj, vzj xj qqfrf Ynsfhwnt
jq Xfgnitw, kzj rzd ithyt js jxyt vzj qqfrfs jq fwyj rálnhf, d fqhfseó utw
xz hnjshnf vzj rn rfiwj, vzj xj qqfrfgf qf wjnsf Ofwfrnqqf, mfgíf ij rtwnw
uwnrjwt vzj éq, d vzj ij fqqí f utht ynjrut éq yfrgnés mfgíf ij ufxfw ijxyf
anif d dt mfgíf ij vzjifw mzéwkfsf ij ufiwj d rfiwj. Ujwt ijhíf éq vzj st
qj kfynlfgf yfsyt jxyt hzfsyt qj utsíf js htskzxnós xfgjw, utw htxf rzd
hnjwyf, vzj zs ijxhtrzsfq lnlfsyj, xjñtw ij zsf lwfsij ísxzqf, vzj hfxn
fqnsif hts szjxywt wjnst, qqfrfit Ufsifknqfsit ij qf Ktxhf Anxyf (utwvzj jx
htxf fajwnlzfif vzj, fzsvzj ynjsj qtx totx js xz qzlfw d ijwjhmtx, xnjruwj
rnwf fq wjaéx, htrt xn kzjxj gneht, d jxyt qt mfhj éq ij rfqnlst d utw
utsjw rnjit d jxufsyt f qtx vzj rnwf); inlt vzj xzut vzj jxyj lnlfsyj, js
xfgnjsit rn twkfsifi, mfgíf ij ufxfw hts lwfs utijwít xtgwj rn wjnst d rj
qt mfgíf ij vznyfw ytit, xns ijofwrj zsf ujvzjñf fqijf itsij rj wjhtlnjxj;
ujwt vzj utiíf jxhzxfw ytif jxyf wznsf d ijxlwfhnf xn dt rj vznxnjxj hfxfw
hts éq; rfx, f qt vzj éq jsyjsiíf, ofráx ujsxfgf vzj rj ajsiwíf f rí js
atqzsyfi ij mfhjw yfs ijxnlzfq hfxfrnjsyt; d inot js jxyt qf uzwf ajwifi,
utwvzj ofráx rj mf ufxfit utw jq ujsxfrnjsyt hfxfwrj hts fvzjq lnlfsyj,
ujwt sn hts tywt fqlzst, utw lwfsij d ijxfktwfit vzj kzjxj. Inot yfrgnés rn
ufiwj vzj, ijxuzéx vzj éq kzjxj rzjwyt d anjxj dt vzj Ufsifknqfsit
htrjsefgf f ufxfw xtgwj rn wjnst, vzj st flzfwifxj f utsjwrj js ijkjsxf,
utwvzj xjwíf ijxywznwrj, xnst vzj qngwjrjsyj qj ijofxj ijxjrgfwfefit jq
wjnst, xn vzjwíf jxhzxfw qf rzjwyj d ytyfq ijxywznhnós ij rnx gzjstx d
qjfqjx afxfqqtx, utwvzj st mfgíf ij xjw utxngqj ijkjsijwrj ij qf jsinfgqfif
kzjwef ijq lnlfsyj; xnst vzj qzjlt, hts fqlzstx ij qtx rítx, rj uzxnjxj js
hfrnst ij qfx Jxufñfx, itsij mfqqfwíf jq wjrjint ij rnx rfqjx mfqqfsit f zs
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, hzdf kfrf js jxyj ynjrut xj jxyjsijwíf utw ytit jxyj
wjnst, jq hzfq xj mfgíf ij qqfrfw, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, its Fetyj t its
Lnltyj.»

-Its Vznotyj inwíf, xjñtwf -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt Ufsef-, t, utw tywt
strgwj, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot Itwtyjf-. «Inot ráx: vzj mfgíf ij xjw fqyt ij
hzjwut, xjht ij wtxywt, d vzj js jq qfit ijwjhmt, ijgfot ijq mtrgwt
nevznjwit, t utw fqqí ozsyt, mfgíf ij yjsjw zs qzsfw ufwit hts hnjwytx
hfgjqqtx f rfsjwf ij hjwifx.»

Js tdjsit jxyt its Vznotyj, inot f xz jxhzijwt:

-Yjs fvzí, Xfshmt, mnot, fdúifrj f ijxszifw, vzj vznjwt ajw xn xtd jq
hfgfqqjwt vzj fvzjq xfgnt wjd ijoó uwtkjynefit.

-Uzjx, ¿ufwf vzé vznjwj azjxywf rjwhji ijxszifwxj? -inot Itwtyjf.
-Ufwf ajw xn yjslt jxj qzsfw vzj azjxywt ufiwj inot -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.
-St mfd ufwf vzé ijxszifwxj -inot Xfshmt-, vzj dt xé vzj ynjsj azjxywf
rjwhji zs qzsfw ijxfx xjñfx js qf rnyfi ijq jxunsfet, vzj jx xjñfq ij xjw
mtrgwj kzjwyj.

-Jxt gfxyf -inot Itwtyjf-, utwvzj hts qtx frnltx st xj mf ij rnwfw js uthfx
htxfx, d vzj jxyé js jq mtrgwt t vzj jxyé js jq jxunsfet, nrutwyf utht;
gfxyf vzj mfdf qzsfw, d jxyé itsij jxyzanjwj, uzjx ytit jx zsf rjxrf hfwsj;
d, xns izif, fhjwyó rn gzjs ufiwj js ytit, d dt mj fhjwyfit js jshtrjsifwrj
fq xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj éq jx utw vznjs rn ufiwj inot, uzjx qfx xjñfqjx
ijq wtxywt anjsjs hts qfx ij qf gzjsf kfrf vzj jxyj hfgfqqjwt ynjsj st xóqt
js Jxufñf, ujwt js ytif qf Rfshmf, uzjx fujsfx rj mzgj ijxjrgfwhfit js
Txzsf, hzfsit tí ijhnw yfsyfx mfefñfx xzdfx, vzj qzjlt rj int jq fqrf vzj
jwf jq rjxrt vzj ajsíf f gzxhfw.

-Uzjx, ¿hórt xj ijxjrgfwhó azjxywf rjwhji js Txzsf, xjñtwf ríf -uwjlzsyó
its Vznotyj-, xn st jx uzjwyt ij rfw?

Rfx, fsyjx vzj Itwtyjf wjxutsinjxj, ytró jq hzwf qf rfst d inot:

-Ijgj ij vzjwjw ijhnw qf xjñtwf uwnshjxf vzj, ijxuzéx vzj ijxjrgfwhó js
Ráqflf, qf uwnrjwf ufwyj itsij tdó szjafx ij azjxywf rjwhji kzj js Txzsf.
-Jxt vznxj ijhnw -inot Itwtyjf.

-D jxyt qqjaf hfrnst -inot jq hzwf-, d uwtxnlf azjxywf rfojxyfi fijqfsyj.
-St mfd vzj uwtxjlznw -wjxutsinó Itwtyjf-, xnst vzj, knsfqrjsyj, rn xzjwyj
mf xnit yfs gzjsf js mfqqfw fq xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj df rj hzjsyt d yjslt
utw wjnsf d xjñtwf ij ytit rn wjnst, uzjx éq, utw xz htwyjxíf d
rflsnknhjshnf, rj mf uwtrjynit jq its ij nwxj htsrnlt itsijvznjwf vzj dt qj
qqjafwj, vzj st xjwá f tywf ufwyj vzj f utsjwqj ijqfsyj ij Ufsifknqfsit ij
qf Ktxhf Anxyf, ufwf vzj qj rfyj d rj wjxynyzdf qt vzj yfs htsywf wfeós rj
ynjsj zxzwufit: vzj ytit jxyt mf ij xzhjijw f ujinw ij gthf, uzjx fxí qt
ijoó uwtkjynefit Ynsfhwnt jq Xfgnitw, rn gzjs ufiwj; jq hzfq yfrgnés ijoó
inhmt d jxhwnyt js qjywfx hfqijfx, t lwnjlfx, vzj dt st qfx xé qjjw, vzj xn
jxyj hfgfqqjwt ij qf uwtkjhíf, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw ijltqqfit fq lnlfsyj,
vznxnjxj hfxfwxj htsrnlt, vzj dt rj tytwlfxj qzjlt xns wéuqnhf fqlzsf utw
xz qjlíynrf jxutxf, d qj injxj qf utxjxnós ij rn wjnst, ozsyt hts qf ij rn
ujwxtsf.

-¿Vzé yj ufwjhj, Xfshmt frnlt? -inot f jxyj uzsyt its Vznotyj-. ¿St tdjx qt
vzj ufxf? ¿St yj qt inoj dt? Rnwf xn yjsjrtx df wjnst vzj rfsifw d wjnsf
hts vznjs hfxfw.

-¡Jxt ozwt dt -inot Xfshmt- ufwf jq uzyt vzj st xj hfxfwj js fgwnjsit jq
lfesfynht fq xjñtw Ufsifmnqfit! Uzjx, ¡rtsyf vzj jx rfqf qf wjnsf! ¡Fxí xj
rj azjqafs qfx uzqlfx ij qf hfrf!

D, inhnjsit jxyt, int itx efufyjyfx js jq fnwj, hts rzjxywfx ij lwfsiíxnrt
htsyjsyt, d qzjlt kzj f ytrfw qfx wnjsifx ij qf rzqf ij Itwtyjf, d,
mfhnésitqf ijyjsjw, xj mnshó ij wtinqqfx fsyj jqqf, xzuqnhásitqj qj injxj
qfx rfstx ufwf gjxáwxjqfx, js xjñfq vzj qf wjhngíf utw xz wjnsf d xjñtwf.
¿Vznés st mfgíf ij wjíw ij qtx hnwhzxyfsyjx, anjsit qf qthzwf ijq frt d qf
xnruqnhnifi ijq hwnfit? Js jkjhyt, Itwtyjf xj qfx int, d qj uwtrjynó ij
mfhjwqj lwfs xjñtw js xz wjnst, hzfsit jq hnjqt qj mnhnjxj yfsyt gnjs vzj
xj qt ijofxj htgwfw d ltefw. Flwfijhnóxjqt Xfshmt hts yfqjx ufqfgwfx vzj
wjstaó qf wnxf js ytitx.

-Éxyf, xjñtwjx -uwtxnlznó Itwtyjf-, jx rn mnxytwnf: xóqt wjxyf utw ijhnwtx
vzj ij hzfsyf ljsyj ij fhtrufñfrnjsyt xfvzé ij rn wjnst st rj mf vzjifit
xnst xóqt jxyj gzjs gfwgfit jxhzijwt, utwvzj ytitx xj fsjlfwts js zsf lwfs
gtwwfxhf vzj yzanrtx f anxyf ijq uzjwyt, d éq d dt xfqnrtx js itx yfgqfx f
ynjwwf, htrt utw rnqflwt; d fxí, jx ytit rnqflwt d rnxyjwnt jq inxhzwxt ij
rn anif, htrt qt mfgwénx styfit. D xn js fqlzsf htxf mj fsifit ijrfxnfif, t
st yfs fhjwyfif htrt ijgnjwf, jhmfi qf hzquf f qt vzj jq xjñtw qnhjshnfit
inot fq uwnshnunt ij rn hzjsyt: vzj qtx ywfgfotx htsynsztx d
jcywftwinsfwntx vznyfs qf rjrtwnf fq vzj qtx ufijhj.

-Éxf st rj vznyfwás f rí, ¡tm fqyf d afqjwtxf xjñtwf! -inot its Vznotyj-,
hzfsytx dt ufxfwj js xjwanwtx, utw lwfsijx d st anxytx vzj xjfs; d fxí, ij
szjat htsknwrt jq its vzj tx mj uwtrjynit, d ozwt ij nw hts atx fq hfgt ijq
rzsit, mfxyf ajwrj hts jq knjwt jsjrnlt azjxywt, f vznjs unjsxt, hts jq
fdzif ij Intx d ij rn gwfet, yfofw qf hfgjef xtgjwgnf hts qtx knqtx
ijxyf... st vznjwt ijhnw gzjsf jxufif, rjwhji f Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj, vzj rj
qqjaó qf ríf.

Jxyt inot jsywj injsyjx, d uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-D ijxuzéx ij mfgéwxjqf yfofit d uzéxyttx js ufhíknhf utxjxnós ij azjxywt
jxyfit, vzjifwá f azjxywf atqzsyfi mfhjw ij azjxywf ujwxtsf qt vzj ráx js
yfqfsyj tx ansnjwj; utwvzj, rnjsywfx vzj dt yzanjwj thzufif qf rjrtwnf d
hfzynaf qf atqzsyfi, ujwinit jq jsyjsinrnjsyt, f fvzjqqf..., d st inlt ráx,
st jx utxngqj vzj dt fwwtxywj, sn utw unjsxt, jq hfxfwrj, fzsvzj kzjxj hts
jq faj késnc.

Ufwjhnóqj yfs rfq f Xfshmt qt vzj úqynrfrjsyj xz frt inot fhjwhf ij st
vzjwjw hfxfwxj, vzj, hts lwfsij jstot, fqefsit qf ate, inot:

-Atyt f rí, d ozwt f rí, vzj st ynjsj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj,
hfgfq oznhnt. Uzjx, ¿hórt jx utxngqj vzj utsj azjxywf rjwhji js izif jq
hfxfwxj hts yfs fqyf uwnshjxf htrt fvzéxyf? ¿Unjsxf vzj qj mf ij tkwjhjw qf
ktwyzsf, ywfx hfif hfsynqqt, xjrjofsyj ajsyzwf htrt qf vzj fmtwf xj qj
tkwjhj? ¿Jx, utw inhmf, ráx mjwrtxf rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf? St, utw hnjwyt, sn
fzs hts qf rnyfi, d fzs jxytd utw ijhnw vzj st qqjlf f xz efufyt ij qf vzj
jxyá ijqfsyj. Fxí, stwfrfqf fqhfsefwé dt jq htsifit vzj jxujwt, xn azjxywf
rjwhji xj fsif f ujinw htyzkfx js jq ltqkt. Háxjxj, háxjxj qzjlt,
jshtrnésitqj dt f Xfyfsáx, d ytrj jxj wjnst vzj xj qj anjsj f qfx rfstx ij
atgnx, atgnx, d, js xnjsit wjd, málfrj rfwvzéx t fijqfsyfit, d qzjlt,
xnvznjwf xj qt qqjaj jq infgqt ytit.

Its Vznotyj, vzj yfqjx gqfxkjrnfx tdó ijhnw htsywf xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, st
qt uzit xzkwnw, d, fqefsit jq qfseós, xns mfgqfqqj ufqfgwf f Xfshmt d xns
ijhnwqj jxyf gthf jx ríf, qj int yfqjx itx ufqtx vzj int hts éq js ynjwwf;
d xn st kzjwf utwvzj Itwtyjf qj int athjx vzj st qj injwf ráx, xns izif qj
vznyfwf fqqí qf anif.

-¿Ujsxánx -qj inot f hfgt ij wfyt-, anqqfst wzns, vzj mf ij mfgjw qzlfw
xnjruwj ufwf utsjwrj qf rfst js qf mtwhfofizwf, d vzj ytit mf ij xjw jwwfw
atx d ujwitsfwtx dt? Uzjx st qt ujsxénx, gjqqfht ijxhtrzqlfit, vzj xns izif
qt jxyáx, uzjx mfx uzjxyt qjslzf js qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf. ¿D st xfgénx atx,
lfñás, kfvzís, gjqnywj, vzj xn st kzjxj utw jq afqtw vzj jqqf nskzsij js rn
gwfet, vzj st qj yjsiwíf dt ufwf rfyfw zsf uzqlf? Ijhni, xthfwwós ij qjslzf
anujwnsf, ¿d vznés ujsxánx vzj mf lfsfit jxyj wjnst d htwyfit qf hfgjef f
jxyj lnlfsyj, d méhmttx f atx rfwvzéx, vzj ytit jxyt itd df utw mjhmt d utw
htxf ufxfif js htxf ozelfif, xn st jx jq afqtw ij Izqhnsjf, ytrfsit f rn
gwfet utw nsxywzrjsyt ij xzx mfefñfx? Jqqf ujqjf js rí, d ajshj js rí, d dt
anat d wjxunwt js jqqf, d yjslt anif d xjw. ¡Tm mnijuzyf gjqqfht, d hórt
xtnx ijxflwfijhnit: vzj tx ajnx qjafsyfit ijq utqat ij qf ynjwwf f xjw
xjñtw ij yíyzqt, d htwwjxutsiénx f yfs gzjsf tgwf hts ijhnw rfq ij vznjs tx
qf mnet!

St jxyfgf yfs rfqywjhmt Xfshmt vzj st tdjxj ytit hzfsyt xz frt qj ijhíf, d,
qjafsyásitxj hts zs utht ij uwjxyjef, xj kzj f utsjw ijywáx ijq ufqfkwés ij
Itwtyjf, d ijxij fqqí inot f xz frt:

-Iílfrj, xjñtw: xn azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj ijyjwrnsfit ij st hfxfwxj hts jxyf
lwfs uwnshjxf, hqfwt jxyá vzj st xjwá jq wjnst xzdt; d, st xnésitqt, ¿vzé
rjwhjijx rj uzjij mfhjw? Jxyt jx ij qt vzj dt rj vzjot; háxjxj azjxywf
rjwhji zsf utw zsf hts jxyf wjnsf, fmtwf vzj qf yjsjrtx fvzí htrt qqtanif
ijq hnjqt, d ijxuzéx uzjij atqajwxj hts rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf; vzj wjdjx ijgj
ij mfgjw mfgnit js jq rzsit vzj mfdfs xnit frfshjgfitx. Js qt ij qf
mjwrtxzwf st rj jsywjrjyt; vzj, js ajwifi, xn af f ijhnwqf, vzj jsywfrgfx
rj ufwjhjs gnjs, uzjxyt vzj dt szshf mj anxyt f qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf.
-¿Hórt vzj st qf mfx anxyt, ywfnitw gqfxkjrt? -inot its Vznotyj-. Uzjx, ¿st
fhfgfx ij ywfjwrj fmtwf zs wjhfit ij xz ufwyj?

-Inlt vzj st qf mj anxyt yfs ijxufhnt -inot Xfshmt- vzj uzjif mfgjw styfit
ufwynhzqfwrjsyj xz mjwrtxzwf d xzx gzjsfx ufwyjx uzsyt utw uzsyt; ujwt fxí,
f gzqyt, rj ufwjhj gnjs.

-Fmtwf yj inxhzqut -inot its Vznotyj-, d ujwiósfrj jq jstot vzj yj mj ifit,
vzj qtx uwnrjwtx rtanrnjsytx st xts js rfstx ij qtx mtrgwjx.

-Df dt qt ajt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d fxí, js rí qf lfsf ij mfgqfw xnjruwj jx
uwnrjwt rtanrnjsyt, d st uzjit ijofw ij ijhnw, utw zsf aje xnvznjwf, qt vzj
rj anjsj f qf qjslzf.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot its Vznotyj-, rnwf, Xfshmt, qt vzj mfgqfx, utwvzj
yfsyfx ajhjx af jq hfsyfwnqqt f qf kzjsyj..., d st yj inlt ráx.

-Fmtwf gnjs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, Intx jxyá js jq hnjqt, vzj aj qfx ywfrufx,
d xjwá ozje ij vznés mfhj ráx rfq: dt js st mfgqfw gnjs, t azjxywf rjwhji
js tgwfqqt.

-St mfdf ráx -inot Itwtyjf-: htwwji, Xfshmt, d gjxfi qf rfst f azjxywt
xjñtw, d ujinqij ujwiós, d ij fvzí fijqfsyj fsifi ráx fyjsyfit js azjxywfx
fqfgfsefx d anyzujwntx, d st inlánx rfq ij fvzjxf xjñtwf Ytgtxf, f vznjs dt
st htsteht xn st jx ufwf xjwanqqf, d yjsji htsknfsef js Intx, vzj st tx mf
ij kfqyfw zs jxyfit itsij anaánx htrt zs uwíshnuj.

Kzj Xfshmt hfgnegfot d uninó qf rfst f xz xjñtw, d éq xj qf int hts
wjutxfit htsynsjsyj; d, ijxuzéx vzj xj qf mzgt gjxfit, qj jhmó qf
gjsinhnós, d inot f Xfshmt vzj xj fijqfsyfxjs zs utht, vzj yjsíf vzj
uwjlzsyfqqj d vzj ijufwynw hts éq htxfx ij rzhmf nrutwyfshnf. Míetqt fxí
Xfshmt d fufwyáwtsxj qtx itx fqlt fijqfsyj, d iíotqj its Vznotyj:
-Ijxuzéx vzj ajsnxyj, st mj yjsnit qzlfw sn jxufhnt ufwf uwjlzsyfwyj rzhmfx
htxfx ij ufwynhzqfwnifi fhjwhf ij qf jrgfofif vzj qqjafxyj d ij qf
wjxuzjxyf vzj ywzonxyj; d fmtwf, uzjx qf ktwyzsf stx mf htshjinit ynjrut d
qzlfw, st rj snjlzjx yú qf ajsyzwf vzj uzjijx ifwrj hts yfs gzjsfx szjafx.
-Uwjlzsyj azjxywf rjwhji qt vzj vznxnjwj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj f ytit
ifwé yfs gzjsf xfqnif htrt yzaj qf jsywfif. Ujwt xzuqnht f azjxywf rjwhji,
xjñtw rít, vzj st xjf ij fvzí fijqfsyj yfs ajslfynat.

-¿Utw vzé qt inhjx, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Iíltqt -wjxutsinó- utwvzj jxytx ufqtx ij fltwf ráx kzjwts utw qf ujsijshnf
vzj jsywj qtx itx ywfgó jq infgqt qf tywf sthmj, vzj utw qt vzj inoj htsywf
rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, f vznjs frt d wjajwjshnt htrt f zsf wjqnvznf, fzsvzj js
jqqf st qt mfdf, xóqt utw xjw htxf ij azjxywf rjwhji.

-St ytwsjx f jxfx uqáynhfx, Xfshmt, utw yz anif -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj rj
ifs ujxfizrgwj; df yj ujwitsé jsytshjx, d gnjs xfgjx yú vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj:
f ujhfit szjat, ujsnyjshnf szjaf.

Js yfsyt vzj qtx itx ngfs js jxyfx uqáynhfx, inot jq hzwf f Itwtyjf vzj
mfgíf fsifit rzd inxhwjyf, fxí js jq hzjsyt htrt js qf gwjajifi iéq, d js
qf xnrnqnyzi vzj yzat hts qtx ij qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx. Jqqf inot vzj
rzhmtx wfytx xj mfgíf jsywjyjsnit js qjjqqtx, ujwt vzj st xfgíf jqqf iósij
jwfs qfx uwtanshnfx sn uzjwytx ij rfw, d vzj fxí mfgíf inhmt f ynjsyt vzj
xj mfgíf ijxjrgfwhfit js Txzsf.

-Dt qt jsyjsií fxí -inot jq hzwf-, d utw jxt fhzií qzjlt f ijhnw qt vzj
inoj, hts vzj xj fhtrtió ytit. Ujwt, ¿st jx htxf jxywfñf ajw hts hzásyf
kfhnqnifi hwjj jxyj ijxajsyzwfit mnifqlt ytifx jxyfx nsajshntsjx d
rjsynwfx, xóqt utwvzj qqjafs jq jxynqt d rtit ij qfx sjhjifijx ij xzx
qngwtx?

-Xí jx -inot Hfwijsnt-, d yfs wfwf d szshf anxyf, vzj dt st xé xn vzjwnjsit
nsajsyfwqf d kfgwnhfwqf rjsynwtxfrjsyj, mzgnjwf yfs flzit nsljsnt vzj
uzinjwf ifw js jqqf.

-Uzjx tywf htxf mfd js jqqt -inot jq hzwf-: vzj kzjwf ij qfx xnruqnhnifijx
vzj jxyj gzjs mnifqlt inhj ythfsyjx f xz qthzwf, xn qj ywfyfs ij tywfx
htxfx, inxhzwwj hts gtsíxnrfx wfetsjx d rzjxywf yjsjw zs jsyjsinrnjsyt
hqfwt d fufhngqj js ytit. Ij rfsjwf vzj, htrt st qj ytvzjs js xzx
hfgfqqjwífx, st mfgwá sfinj vzj qj ozelzj xnst utw ij rzd gzjs
jsyjsinrnjsyt.

Js yfsyt vzj jqqtx ngfs js jxyf htsajwxfhnós, uwtxnlznó its Vznotyj hts qf
xzdf d inot f Xfshmt:

-Jhmjrtx, Ufsef frnlt, ujqnqqtx f qf rfw js jxyt ij szjxywfx ujsijshnfx, d
inrj fmtwf, xns yjsjw hzjsyf hts jstot sn wjshtw fqlzst: ¿Iósij, hórt d
hzásit mfqqfxyj f Izqhnsjf? ¿Vzé mfhíf? ¿Vzé qj inonxyj? ¿Vzé yj wjxutsinó?
¿Vzé wtxywt mnet hzfsit qjíf rn hfwyf? ¿Vznés yj qf ywfxqfió? D ytit
fvzjqqt vzj anjwjx vzj js jxyj hfxt jx inlst ij xfgjwxj, ij uwjlzsyfwxj d
xfynxkfhjwxj, xns vzj fñfifx t rnjsyfx utw ifwrj lzxyt, sn rjstx yj fhtwyjx
utw st vznyáwrjqj.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn af f ijhnw qf ajwifi, qf hfwyf st rj qf
ywfxqfió sfinj, utwvzj dt st qqjaé hfwyf fqlzsf.

-Fxí jx htrt yú inhjx -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj jq qngwnqqt ij rjrtwnf
itsij dt qf jxhwngí qj mfqqé js rn utijw f hfgt ij itx iífx ij yz ufwynif,
qt hzfq rj hfzxó lwfsiíxnrf ujsf, utw st xfgjw qt vzj mfgífx yú ij mfhjw
hzfsit yj anjxjx xns hfwyf, d hwjí xnjruwj vzj yj atqanjwfx ijxij jq qzlfw
itsij qf jhmfwfx rjstx.

-Fxí kzjwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn st qf mzgnjwf dt ytrfit js qf rjrtwnf
hzfsit azjxywf rjwhji rj qf qjdó, ij rfsjwf vzj xj qf inoj f zs xfhwnxyás,
vzj rj qf ywfxqfió ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt, yfs uzsyt utw uzsyt, vzj inot vzj js
ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif, fzsvzj mfgíf qjíit rzhmfx hfwyfx ij ijxhtrzsnós,
st mfgíf anxyt sn qjíit yfs qnsif hfwyf htrt fvzéqqf.

-D ¿ynésjxqf ytifaíf js qf rjrtwnf, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-St, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj ijxuzéx vzj qf in, htrt an vzj st
mfgíf ij xjw ij ráx uwtajhmt, in js tqanifqqf. D xn fqlt xj rj fhzjwif, jx
fvzjqqt ijq xtgfofif, inlt, ijq xtgjwfsf xjñtwf, d qt úqynrt: Azjxywt mfxyf
qf rzjwyj, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf. D, js rjint ijxyfx itx htxfx,
qj uzxj ráx ij ywjhnjsyfx fqrfx, d anifx, d totx rítx.





Hfuíyzqt CCCN. Ij qtx xfgwtxtx wfetsfrnjsytx vzj ufxfwts jsywj its Vznotyj
d Xfshmt Ufsef, xz jxhzijwt, hts tywtx xzhjxtx


-Ytit jxt st rj ijxhtsyjsyf; uwtxnlzj fijqfsyj -inot its Vznotyj-.
Qqjlfxyj, ¿d vzé mfhíf fvzjqqf wjnsf ij qf mjwrtxzwf? F gzjs xjlzwt vzj qf
mfqqfxyj jsxfwyfsit ujwqfx, t gtwifsit fqlzsf jruwjxf hts twt ij hfñzynqqt
ufwf jxyj xz hfzynat hfgfqqjwt.

-St qf mfqqé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- xnst fmjhmfsit itx mfsjlfx ij ywnlt js zs
htwwfq ij xz hfxf.

-Uzjx mfe hzjsyf -inot its Vznotyj- vzj qtx lwfstx ij fvzjq ywnlt jwfs
lwfstx ij ujwqfx, ythfitx ij xzx rfstx. D xn rnwfxyj, frnlt, jq ywnlt ¿jwf
hfsijfq, t ywjhmjq?

-St jwf xnst wzgnós -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Uzjx dt yj fxjlzwt -inot its Vznotyj- vzj, fmjhmfit utw xzx rfstx, mnet
ufs hfsijfq, xns izif fqlzsf. Ujwt ufxf fijqfsyj: hzfsit qj inxyj rn hfwyf,
¿gjxóqf? ¿Uúxtxjqf xtgwj qf hfgjef? ¿Mnet fqlzsf hjwjrtsnf inlsf ij yfq
hfwyf, t vzé mnet?

-Hzfsit dt xj qf ngf f ifw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, jqqf jxyfgf js qf kzlf ijq
rjsjt ij zsf gzjsf ufwyj ij ywnlt vzj yjsíf js qf hwngf, d iíotrj: ''Utsji,
frnlt, jxf hfwyf xtgwj fvzjq htxyfq, vzj st qf uzjit qjjw mfxyf vzj fhfgj
ij fhwngfw ytit qt vzj fvzí jxyá''.

-¡Inxhwjyf xjñtwf! -inot its Vznotyj-. Jxt ijgnó ij xjw utw qjjwqf ijxufhnt
d wjhwjfwxj hts jqqf. Fijqfsyj, Xfshmt: d, js yfsyt vzj jxyfgf js xz
rjsjxyjw, ¿vzé htqtvzntx ufxó htsynlt? ¿Vzé yj uwjlzsyó ij rí? D yú, ¿vzé
qj wjxutsinxyj? Fhfgf, hzésyfrjqt ytit; st xj yj vzjij js jq ynsyjwt zsf
rísnrf.

-Jqqf st rj uwjlzsyó sfif -inot Xfshmt-, rfx dt qj inoj ij qf rfsjwf vzj
azjxywf rjwhji, utw xz xjwanhnt, vzjifgf mfhnjsit ujsnyjshnf, ijxszit ij qf
hnsyzwf fwwngf, rjynit jsywj jxyfx xnjwwfx htrt xn kzjwf xfqafoj, izwrnjsit
js jq xzjqt, xns htrjw ufs f rfsyjqjx sn xns ujnsfwxj qf gfwgf, qqtwfsit d
rfqinhnjsit xz ktwyzsf.

-Js ijhnw vzj rfqijhíf rn ktwyzsf inonxyj rfq -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj
fsyjx qf gjsinlt d gjsijhnwé ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif, utw mfgjwrj mjhmt
inlst ij rjwjhjw frfw yfs fqyf xjñtwf htrt Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

-Yfs fqyf jx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj f gzjsf kj vzj rj qqjaf f rí ráx ij zs
htyt.

-Uzjx, ¿hórt, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj-. ¿Mfxyj rjinit yú hts jqqf?
-Rjiírj js jxyf rfsjwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: vzj, qqjlásitqj f fdzifw f utsjw
zs htxyfq ij ywnlt xtgwj zs ozrjsyt, qqjlfrtx yfs ozsytx vzj jhmé ij ajw
vzj rj qqjafgf ráx ij zs lwfs ufqrt.

-Uzjx ¡jx ajwifi -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj- vzj st fhtrufñf jxf lwfsijef d qf
fitwsf hts rnq rnqqtsjx d lwfhnfx ijq fqrf! Ujwt st rj sjlfwáx, Xfshmt, zsf
htxf: hzfsit qqjlfxyj ozsyt f jqqf, ¿st xjsynxyj zs tqtw xfgjt, zsf
kwflfshnf fwtráynhf, d zs st xé vzé ij gzjst, vzj dt st fhnjwyt f ifqqj
strgwj? Inlt, ¿zs yzmt t yzkt htrt xn jxyzanjwfx js qf ynjsif ij fqlús
hzwntxt lzfsyjwt?

-Qt vzj xé ijhnw -inot Xfshmt- jx vzj xjsyí zs tqtwhnqqt fqlt mtrgwzst; d
ijgíf ij xjw vzj jqqf, hts jq rzhmt jojwhnhnt, jxyfgf xzifif d fqlt
htwwjtxf.

-St xjwíf jxt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xnst vzj yú ijgífx ij jxyfw
wtrfinefit, t yj ijgnxyj ij tqjw f yn rnxrt; utwvzj dt xé gnjs f qt vzj
mzjqj fvzjqqf wtxf jsywj jxunsfx, fvzjq qnwnt ijq hfrut, fvzjq árgfw
ijxqjíit.

-Ytit uzjij xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj rzhmfx ajhjx xfqj ij rí fvzjq tqtw
vzj jsytshjx rj ufwjhnó vzj xfqíf ij xz rjwhji ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf; ujwt
st mfd ij vzé rfwfanqqfwxj, vzj zs infgqt ufwjhj f tywt.

-D gnjs -uwtxnlznó its Vznotyj-, mj fvzí vzj fhfgó ij qnrunfw xz ywnlt d ij
jsanfqqt fq rtqnst. ¿Vzé mnet hzfsit qjdó qf hfwyf?

-Qf hfwyf -inot Xfshmt- st qf qjdó, utwvzj inot vzj st xfgíf qjjw sn
jxhwngnw; fsyjx, qf wfxló d qf mnet rjszifx unjefx, inhnjsit vzj st qf
vzjwíf ifw f qjjw f sfinj, utwvzj st xj xzunjxjs js jq qzlfw xzx xjhwjytx,
d vzj gfxyfgf qt vzj dt qj mfgíf inhmt ij ufqfgwf fhjwhf ijq frtw vzj
azjxywf rjwhji qj yjsíf d ij qf ujsnyjshnf jcywftwinsfwnf vzj utw xz hfzxf
vzjifgf mfhnjsit. D, knsfqrjsyj, rj inot vzj inojxj f azjxywf rjwhji vzj qj
gjxfgf qfx rfstx, d vzj fqqí vzjifgf hts ráx ijxjt ij ajwqj vzj ij
jxhwngnwqj; d vzj, fxí, qj xzuqnhfgf d rfsifgf vzj, anxyf qf uwjxjsyj,
xfqnjxj ij fvzjqqtx rfytwwfqjx d xj ijofxj ij mfhjw inxufwfyjx, d xj
uzxnjxj qzjlt qzjlt js hfrnst ijq Ytgtxt, xn tywf htxf ij ráx nrutwyfshnf
st qj xzhjinjxj, utwvzj yjsíf lwfs ijxjt ij ajw f azjxywf rjwhji. Wnóxj
rzhmt hzfsit qj inoj htrt xj qqfrfgf azjxywf rjwhji jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf
Ywnxyj Knlzwf. Uwjlzsyéqj xn mfgíf nit fqqá jq anehfíst ij rfwwfx; iíotrj
vzj xí, d vzj jwf zs mtrgwj rzd ij gnjs. Yfrgnés qj uwjlzsyé utw qtx
lfqjtyjx, rfx iíotrj vzj st mfgíf anxyt mfxyf jsytshjx fqlzst.

-Ytit af gnjs mfxyf fltwf -inot its Vznotyj-. Ujwt inrj: ¿vzé otdf kzj qf
vzj yj int, fq ijxujinwyj, utw qfx szjafx vzj ij rí qj qqjafxyj? Utwvzj jx
zxfif d fsynlzf htxyzrgwj jsywj qtx hfgfqqjwtx d ifrfx fsifsyjx ifw f qtx
jxhzijwtx, itshjqqfx t jsfstx vzj qjx qqjafs szjafx, ij xzx ifrfx f jqqtx,
f jqqfx ij xzx fsifsyjx, fqlzsf wnhf otdf js fqgwnhnfx, js flwfijhnrnjsyt
ij xz wjhfit.

-Gnjs uzjij jxt xjw fxí, d dt qf yjslt utw gzjsf zxfsef; ujwt jxt ijgnó ij
xjw js qtx ynjrutx ufxfitx, vzj fmtwf xóqt xj ijgj ij fhtxyzrgwfw f ifw zs
ujifet ij ufs d vzjxt, vzj jxyt kzj qt vzj rj int rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, utw
qfx gfwifx ij zs htwwfq, hzfsit ijqqf rj ijxujií; d fzs, utw ráx xjñfx, jwf
jq vzjxt tajozst.

-Jx qngjwfq js jxywjrt -inot its Vznotyj-, d xn st yj int otdf ij twt, xns
izif ijgnó ij xjw utwvzj st qf yjsiwíf fqqí f qf rfst ufwf iáwyjqf; ujwt
gzjsfx xts rfslfx ijxuzéx ij Ufxhzf: dt qf ajwé, d xj xfynxkfwá ytit.
¿Xfgjx ij vzé jxytd rfwfanqqfit, Xfshmt? Ij vzj rj ufwjhj vzj kznxyj d
ajsnxyj utw qtx fnwjx, uzjx utht ráx ij ywjx iífx mfx yfwifit js nw d ajsnw
ijxij fvzí fq Ytgtxt, mfgnjsit ij fvzí fqqá ráx ij ywjnsyf qjlzfx; utw qt
hzfq rj itd f jsyjsijw vzj fvzjq xfgnt snlwtrfsyj vzj ynjsj hzjsyf hts rnx
htxfx d jx rn frnlt (utwvzj utw kzjwef qj mfd, d qj mf ij mfgjw, xt ujsf
vzj dt st xjwíf gzjs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj); inlt vzj jxyj yfq yj ijgnó ij
fdzifw f hfrnsfw, xns vzj yú qt xnsynjxjx; vzj mfd xfgnt iéxytx vzj htlj f
zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj izwrnjsit js xz hfrf, d, xns xfgjw hórt t js vzé
rfsjwf, frfsjhj tywt iíf ráx ij rnq qjlzfx ij itsij fsthmjhnó. D xn st
kzjxj utw jxyt, st xj utiwífs xthtwwjw js xzx ujqnlwtx qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx zstx f tywtx, htrt xj xthtwwjs f hfif ufxt. Vzj fhfjhj jxyfw zst
ujqjfsit js qfx xnjwwfx ij Fwrjsnf hts fqlús jsiwnflt, t hts fqlús knjwt
ajxynlqt, t hts tywt hfgfqqjwt, itsij qqjaf qt ujtw ij qf gfyfqqf d jxyá df
f uzsyt ij rzjwyj, d hzfsit st tx rj hfyt, fxtrf utw fhzqqá, jshnrf ij zsf
szgj, t xtgwj zs hfwwt ij kzjlt, tywt hfgfqqjwt frnlt xzdt, vzj utht fsyjx
xj mfqqfgf js Nslfqfyjwwf, vzj qj kfatwjhj d qngwf ij qf rzjwyj, d f qf
sthmj xj mfqqf js xz utxfif, hjsfsit rzd f xz xfgtw; d xzjqj mfgjw ij qf
zsf f qf tywf ufwyj itx t ywjx rnq qjlzfx. D ytit jxyt xj mfhj utw
nsizxywnf d xfgnizwíf ijxytx xfgntx jshfsyfitwjx vzj ynjsjs hznifit ijxytx
afqjwtxtx hfgfqqjwtx. Fxí vzj, frnlt Xfshmt, st xj rj mfhj inknhzqytxt
hwjjw vzj js yfs gwjaj ynjrut mfdfx nit d ajsnit ijxij jxyj qzlfw fq ijq
Ytgtxt, uzjx, htrt yjslt inhmt, fqlús xfgnt frnlt yj ijgnó ij qqjafw js
atqfsinqqfx, xns vzj yú qt xnsynjxjx.

-Fxí xjwíf -inot Xfshmt-; utwvzj f gzjsf kj vzj fsifgf Wthnsfsyj htrt xn
kzjwf fxst ij lnyfst hts fetlzj js qtx tíitx.

-D ¡hórt xn qqjafgf fetlzj! -inot its Vznotyj-, d fzs zsf qjlnós ij
ijrtsntx, vzj jx ljsyj vzj hfrnsf d mfhj hfrnsfw, xns hfsxfwxj, ytit
fvzjqqt vzj xj qjx fsytof. Ujwt, ijofsit jxyt fufwyj, ¿vzé yj ufwjhj f yn
vzj ijgt dt ij mfhjw fmtwf hjwhf ij qt vzj rn xjñtwf rj rfsif vzj qf afdf f
ajw?; vzj, fzsvzj dt ajt vzj jxytd tgqnlfit f hzruqnw xz rfsifrnjsyt, aétrj
yfrgnés nrutxngnqnyfit ijq its vzj mj uwtrjynit f qf uwnshjxf vzj hts
stxtywtx anjsj, d kzéwefrj qf qjd ij hfgfqqjwíf f hzruqnw rn ufqfgwf fsyjx
vzj rn lzxyt. Utw zsf ufwyj, rj fhtxf d kfynlf jq ijxjt ij ajw f rn xjñtwf;
utw tywf, rj nshnyf d qqfrf qf uwtrjynif kj d qf lqtwnf vzj mj ij fqhfsefw
js jxyf jruwjxf. Ujwt qt vzj unjsxt mfhjw xjwá hfrnsfw fuwnjxf d qqjlfw
uwjxyt itsij jxyá jxyj lnlfsyj, d, js qqjlfsit, qj htwyfwé qf hfgjef, d
utsiwé f qf uwnshjxf ufhíknhfrjsyj js xz jxyfit, d fq uzsyt ifwé qf azjqyf
f ajw f qf qze vzj rnx xjsynitx fqzrgwf, f qf hzfq ifwé yfqjx inxhzqufx vzj
jqqf ajslf f yjsjw utw gzjsf rn yfwifsef, uzjx ajwá vzj ytit wjizsif js
fzrjsyt ij xz lqtwnf d kfrf, uzjx hzfsyf dt mj fqhfsefit, fqhfset d
fqhfsefwj utw qfx fwrfx js jxyf anif, ytif rj anjsj ijq kfatw vzj jqqf rj
if d ij xjw dt xzdt.

-¡Fd -inot Xfshmt-, d hórt jxyá azjxywf rjwhji qfxynrfit ij jxtx hfxhtx!
Uzjx iílfrj, xjñtw: ¿unjsxf azjxywf rjwhji hfrnsfw jxyj hfrnst js gfqij, d
ijofw ufxfw d ujwijw zs yfs wnht d yfs uwnshnufq hfxfrnjsyt htrt éxyj,
itsij qj ifs js ityj zs wjnst, vzj f gzjsf ajwifi vzj mj tíit ijhnw vzj
ynjsj ráx ij ajnsyj rnq qjlzfx ij htsytwst, d vzj jx fgzsifsyíxnrt ij ytifx
qfx htxfx vzj xts sjhjxfwnfx ufwf jq xzxyjsyt ij qf anif mzrfsf, d vzj jx
rfdtw vzj Utwyzlfq d vzj Hfxynqqf ozsytx? Hfqqj, utw frtw ij Intx, d yjslf
ajwlüjsef ij qt vzj mf inhmt, d ytrj rn htsxjot, d ujwiósjrj, d háxjxj
qzjlt js jq uwnrjw qzlfw vzj mfdf hzwf; d xn st, fmí jxyá szjxywt
qnhjshnfit, vzj qt mfwá ij ujwqfx. D fianjwyf vzj df yjslt jifi ufwf ifw
htsxjotx, d vzj jxyj vzj qj itd qj anjsj ij rtqij, d vzj ráx afqj uáofwt js
rfst vzj gznywj atqfsit, utwvzj vznjs gnjs ynjsj d rfq jxhtlj, utw gnjs vzj
xj jstof st xj ajslf.

-Rnwf, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: xn jq htsxjot vzj rj ifx ij vzj rj
hfxj jx utwvzj xjf qzjlt wjd, js rfyfsit fq lnlfsyj, d yjslf hórtit ufwf
mfhjwyj rjwhjijx d ifwyj qt uwtrjynit, máltyj xfgjw vzj xns hfxfwrj utiwé
hzruqnw yz ijxjt rzd káhnqrjsyj, utwvzj dt xfhfwé ij fifmfqf, fsyjx ij
jsywfw js qf gfyfqqf, vzj, xfqnjsit ajshjitw ijqqf, df vzj st rj hfxj, rj
mfs ij ifw zsf ufwyj ijq wjnst, ufwf vzj qf uzjif ifw f vznjs dt vznxnjwj;
d, js iásitrjqf, ¿f vznés vznjwjx yú vzj qf ié xnst f yn?

-Jxt jxyá hqfwt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt rnwj azjxywf rjwhji vzj qf jxhtof
mfhnf qf rfwnsf, utwvzj, xn st rj htsyjsyfwj qf ananjsif, uzjif jrgfwhfw
rnx sjlwtx afxfqqtx d mfhjw ijqqtx qt vzj df mj inhmt. D azjxywf rjwhji st
xj hzwj ij nw utw fltwf f ajw f rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, xnst aádfxj f rfyfw fq
lnlfsyj, d htshqzdfrtx jxyj sjlthnt; vzj utw Intx vzj xj rj fxnjsyf vzj mf
ij xjw ij rzhmf mtswf d ij rzhmt uwtajhmt.

-Iíltyj, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj jxyáx js qt hnjwyt, d vzj mfgwé ij
ytrfw yz htsxjot js hzfsyt jq nw fsyjx hts qf uwnshjxf vzj f ajw f
Izqhnsjf. D faíxtyj vzj st inlfx sfif f sfinj, sn f qtx vzj hts stxtywtx
anjsjs, ij qt vzj fvzí mjrtx ijufwynit d ywfyfit; vzj, uzjx Izqhnsjf jx yfs
wjhfyfif vzj st vznjwj vzj xj xjufs xzx ujsxfrnjsytx, st xjwá gnjs vzj dt,
sn tywt utw rí, qtx ijxhzgwf.

-Uzjx xn jxt jx fxí -inot Xfshmt-, ¿hórt mfhj azjxywf rjwhji vzj ytitx qtx
vzj ajshj utw xz gwfet xj afdfs f uwjxjsyfw fsyj rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, xnjsit
jxyt knwrf ij xz strgwj vzj qf vznjwj gnjs d vzj jx xz jsfrtwfit? D, xnjsit
ktwetxt vzj qtx vzj kzjwjs xj mfs ij nw f mnshfw ij knstotx fsyj xz
uwjxjshnf, d ijhnw vzj afs ij ufwyj ij azjxywf rjwhji f ifqqj qf
tgjinjshnf, ¿hórt xj uzjijs jshzgwnw qtx ujsxfrnjsytx ij jsywfrgtx?
-¡Tm, vzé sjhnt d vzé xnruqj vzj jwjx! -inot its Vznotyj-. ¿Yú st ajx,
Xfshmt, vzj jxt ytit wjizsif js xz rfdtw jsxfqefrnjsyt? Utwvzj mfx ij xfgjw
vzj js jxyj szjxywt jxynqt ij hfgfqqjwíf jx lwfs mtswf yjsjw zsf ifrf
rzhmtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj qf xnwafs, xns vzj xj jxynjsifs ráx xzx
ujsxfrnjsytx vzj f xjwanqqf, utw xóqt xjw jqqf vznjs jx, xns jxujwfw tywt
uwjrnt ij xzx rzhmtx d gzjstx ijxjtx, xnst vzj jqqf xj htsyjsyj ij
fhjyfwqtx utw xzx hfgfqqjwtx.

-Hts jxf rfsjwf ij frtw -inot Xfshmt- mj tíit dt uwjinhfw vzj xj mf ij frfw
f Szjxywt Xjñtw, utw xí xtqt, xns vzj stx rzjaf jxujwfsef ij lqtwnf t yjrtw
ij ujsf. Fzsvzj dt qj vzjwwíf frfw d xjwanw utw qt vzj uzinjxj.
-¡Aáqfyj jq infgqt utw anqqfst -inot its Vznotyj-, d vzé ij inxhwjhntsjx
inhjx f qfx ajhjx! St ufwjhj xnst vzj mfx jxyzinfit.

-Uzjx f kj ríf vzj st xé qjjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

Js jxyt, qjx int athjx rfjxj Snhtqáx vzj jxujwfxjs zs utht, vzj vzjwífs
ijyjsjwxj f gjgjw js zsf ktsyjhnqqf vzj fqqí jxyfgf. Ijyúatxj its Vznotyj,
hts st utht lzxyt ij Xfshmt, vzj df jxyfgf hfsxfit ij rjsynw yfsyt d yjríf
st qj htlnjxj xz frt f ufqfgwfx; utwvzj, uzjxyt vzj éq xfgíf vzj Izqhnsjf
jwf zsf qfgwfitwf ijq Ytgtxt, st qf mfgíf anxyt js ytif xz anif.
Mfgífxj js jxyj ynjrut ajxynit Hfwijsnt qtx ajxynitx vzj Itwtyjf ywfíf
hzfsit qf mfqqfwts, vzj, fzsvzj st jwfs rzd gzjstx, mfhífs rzhmf ajsyfof f
qtx vzj ijofgf. Fujáwtsxj ozsyt f qf kzjsyj, d hts qt vzj jq hzwf xj
fhtrtió js qf ajsyf xfynxknhnjwts, fzsvzj utht, qf rzhmf mfrgwj vzj ytitx
ywfífs.

Jxyfsit js jxyt, fhjwyó f ufxfw utw fqqí zs rzhmfhmt vzj ngf ij hfrnst, jq
hzfq, utsnésitxj f rnwfw hts rzhmf fyjshnós f qtx vzj js qf kzjsyj jxyfgfs,
ij fqqí f utht fwwjrjynó f its Vznotyj, d, fgwfeásitqj utw qfx unjwsfx,
htrjseó f qqtwfw rzd ij uwtuóxnyt, inhnjsit:

-¡Fd, xjñtw rít! ¿St rj htsthj azjxywf rjwhji? Uzjx ríwjrj gnjs, vzj dt xtd
fvzjq rtet Fsiwéx vzj vznyó azjxywf rjwhji ij qf jshnsf itsij jxyfgf fyfit.
Wjhtsthnóqj its Vznotyj, d, fxnésitqj utw qf rfst, xj atqanó f qtx vzj fqqí
jxyfgfs d inot:

-Utwvzj ajfs azjxywfx rjwhjijx hzás ij nrutwyfshnf jx mfgjw hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx js jq rzsit, vzj ijxkflfs qtx yzjwytx d flwfantx vzj js éq xj
mfhjs utw qtx nsxtqjsyjx d rfqtx mtrgwjx vzj js éq anajs, xjufs azjxywfx
rjwhjijx vzj qtx iífx ufxfitx, ufxfsit dt utw zs gtxvzj, tí zstx lwnytx d
zsfx athjx rzd qfxynrtxfx, htrt ij ujwxtsf fkqnlnif d rjsjxyjwtxf; fhzií
qzjlt, qqjafit ij rn tgqnlfhnós, mfhnf qf ufwyj itsij rj ufwjhnó vzj qfx
qfrjsyfgqjx athjx xtsfgfs, d mfqqé fyfit f zsf jshnsf f jxyj rzhmfhmt vzj
fmtwf jxyá ijqfsyj (ij qt vzj rj mzjqlt js jq fqrf, utwvzj xjwá yjxynlt vzj
st rj ijofwá rjsynw js sfif); inlt vzj jxyfgf fyfit f qf jshnsf, ijxszit
ijq rjint hzjwut fwwngf, d jxyágfqj fgwnjsit f fetyjx hts qfx wnjsifx ij
zsf djlzf zs anqqfst, vzj ijxuzéx xzuj vzj jwf frt xzdt; d, fxí htrt dt qj
an, qj uwjlzsyé qf hfzxf ij yfs fywte afuzqfrnjsyt; wjxutsinó jq efknt vzj
qj fetyfgf utwvzj jwf xz hwnfit, d vzj hnjwytx ijxhznitx vzj yjsíf sfhífs
ráx ij qfiwós vzj ij xnruqj; f qt hzfq jxyj snñt inot: ''Xjñtw, st rj fetyf
xnst utwvzj qj unit rn xfqfwnt''. Jq frt wjuqnhó st xé vzé fwjslfx d
inxhzqufx, qfx hzfqjx, fzsvzj ij rí kzjwts tíifx, st kzjwts firnynifx. Js
wjxtqzhnós, dt qj mnhj ijxfyfw, d ytré ozwfrjsyt fq anqqfst ij vzj qj
qqjafwíf htsxnlt d qj uflfwíf zs wjfq xtgwj tywt, d fzs xfmzrfitx. ¿St jx
ajwifi ytit jxyt, mnot Fsiwéx? ¿St styfxyj hts hzásyt nrujwnt xj qt rfsié,
d hts hzásyf mzrnqifi uwtrjynó ij mfhjw ytit hzfsyt dt qj nruzxj, d
stynknvzé d vznxj? Wjxutsij; st yj yzwgjx sn izijx js sfif: in qt vzj ufxó
f jxytx xjñtwjx, utwvzj xj ajf d htsxnijwj xjw ijq uwtajhmt vzj inlt mfgjw
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx utw qtx hfrnstx.

-Ytit qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf inhmt jx rzhmf ajwifi -wjxutsinó jq
rzhmfhmt-, ujwt jq kns ijq sjlthnt xzhjinó rzd fq wjaéx ij qt vzj azjxywf
rjwhji xj nrflnsf.

-¿Hórt fq wjaéx? -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-; qzjlt, ¿st yj ufló jq anqqfst?
-St xóqt st rj ufló -wjxutsinó jq rzhmfhmt-, ujwt, fxí htrt azjxywf rjwhji
ywfxuzxt ijq gtxvzj d vzjifrtx xtqtx, rj atqanó f fyfw f qf rjxrf jshnsf, d
rj int ij szjat yfsytx fetyjx vzj vzjié mjhmt zs Xfs Gfwytqtré ijxtqqfit;
d, f hfif fetyj vzj rj ifgf, rj ijhíf zs itsfnwj d hmzkjyf fhjwhf ij mfhjw
gzwqf ij azjxywf rjwhji, vzj, f st xjsynw dt yfsyt itqtw, rj wnjwf ij qt
vzj ijhíf. Js jkjyt: éq rj ufwó yfq, vzj mfxyf fmtwf mj jxyfit hzwásitrj js
zs mtxunyfq ijq rfq vzj jq rfq anqqfst jsytshjx rj mnet. Ij ytit qt hzfq
ynjsj azjxywf rjwhji qf hzquf, utwvzj xn xj kzjwf xz hfrnst fijqfsyj d st
ansnjwf itsij st qj qqfrfgfs, sn xj jsywjrjynjwf js sjlthntx fojstx, rn frt
xj htsyjsyfwf hts ifwrj zsf t itx ithjsfx ij fetyjx, d qzjlt rj xtqyfwf d
uflfwf hzfsyt rj ijgíf. Rfx, htrt azjxywf rjwhji qj ijxmtswó yfs xns
uwtuóxnyt d qj inot yfsyfx anqqfsífx, jshjsinóxjqj qf hóqjwf, d, htrt st qf
uzit ajslfw js azjxywf rjwhji, hzfsit xj ant xtqt ijxhfwló xtgwj rí jq
szgqfit, ij rtit vzj rj ufwjhj vzj st xjwé ráx mtrgwj js ytif rn anif.
-Jq ifñt jxyzat -inot its Vznotyj- js nwrj dt ij fqqí; vzj st rj mfgíf ij
nw mfxyf ijofwyj uflfit, utwvzj gnjs ijgíf dt ij xfgjw, utw qzjslfx
jcujwnjshnfx, vzj st mfd anqqfst vzj lzfwij ufqfgwf vzj ynjsj, xn éq ajj
vzj st qj jxyá gnjs lzfwifqqf. Ujwt df yj fhzjwifx, Fsiwéx, vzj dt ozwé vzj
xn st yj uflfgf, vzj mfgíf ij nw f gzxhfwqj, d vzj qj mfgíf ij mfqqfw,
fzsvzj xj jxhtsinjxj js jq anjsywj ij qf gfqqjsf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot Fsiwéx-, ujwt st fuwtajhmó sfif.

-Fmtwf ajwáx xn fuwtajhmf -inot its Vznotyj.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj qjafsyó rzd fuwnjxf d rfsió f Xfshmt vzj jskwjsfxj f
Wthnsfsyj, vzj jxyfgf ufhnjsit js yfsyt vzj jqqtx htrífs.

Uwjlzsyóqj Itwtyjf vzé jwf qt vzj mfhjw vzjwíf. Éq qj wjxutsinó vzj vzjwíf
nw f gzxhfw fq anqqfst d hfxynlfqqj ij yfs rfq yéwrnst, d mfhjw uflfit f
Fsiwéx mfxyf jq úqynrt rfwfajií, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij hzfsytx anqqfstx
mzgnjxj js jq rzsit. F qt vzj jqqf wjxutsinó vzj fianwynjxj vzj st utiíf,
htsktwrj fq its uwtrjynit, jsywjrjyjwxj js snslzsf jruwjxf mfxyf fhfgfw qf
xzdf; d vzj, uzjx jxyt xfgíf éq rjotw vzj tywt fqlzst, vzj xtxjlfxj jq
ujhmt mfxyf qf azjqyf ij xz wjnst.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d jx ktwetxt vzj Fsiwéx yjslf
ufhnjshnf mfxyf qf azjqyf, htrt atx, xjñtwf, ijhíx; vzj dt qj ytwst f ozwfw
d f uwtrjyjw ij szjat ij st ufwfw mfxyf mfhjwqj ajslfit d uflfit.

-St rj hwjt ijxtx ozwfrjsytx -inot Fsiwéx-; ráx vznxnjwf yjsjw fltwf hts
vzé qqjlfw f Xjanqqf vzj ytifx qfx ajslfsefx ijq rzsit: iérj, xn ynjsj fmí,
fqlt vzj htrf d qqjaj, d vzéijxj hts Intx xz rjwhji d ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx; vzj yfs gnjs fsifsyjx xjfs jqqtx ufwf htsxnlt htrt qt mfs xnit
ufwf htsrnlt.

Xfhó ij xz wjuzjxyt Xfshmt zs ujifet ij ufs d tywt ij vzjxt, d, iásitxjqt
fq rtet, qj inot:

-Ytrá, mjwrfst Fsiwéx, vzj f ytitx stx fqhfsef ufwyj ij azjxywf ijxlwfhnf.
-Uzjx, ¿vzé ufwyj tx fqhfsef f atx? -uwjlzsyó Fsiwéx.

-Jxyf ufwyj ij vzjxt d ufs vzj tx itd -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj Intx xfgj xn
rj mf ij mfhjw kfqyf t st; utwvzj tx mflt xfgjw, frnlt, vzj qtx jxhzijwtx
ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx jxyfrtx xzojytx f rzhmf mfrgwj d f rfqf ajsyzwf,
d fzs f tywfx htxfx vzj xj xnjsyjs rjotw vzj xj inhjs.

Fsiwéx fxnó ij xz ufs d vzjxt, d, anjsit vzj sfinj qj ifgf tywf htxf, fgfoó
xz hfgjef d ytró jq hfrnst js qfx rfstx, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj. Gnjs jx ajwifi
vzj, fq ufwynwxj, inot f its Vznotyj:

-Utw frtw ij Intx, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj xn tywf aje rj jshtsywfwj,
fzsvzj ajf vzj rj mfhjs ujifetx, st rj xthtwwf sn fdzij, xnst iéojrj hts rn
ijxlwfhnf; vzj st xjwá yfsyf, vzj st xjf rfdtw qf vzj rj ajsiwá ij xz fdzif
ij azjxywf rjwhji, f vznjs Intx rfqinlf, d f ytitx hzfsytx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx mfs sfhnit js jq rzsit.

Ígfxj f qjafsyfw its Vznotyj ufwf hfxynlfqqj, rfx éq xj uzxt f htwwjw ij
rtit vzj snslzst xj fywjanó f xjlznqqj. Vzjió htwwniíxnrt its Vznotyj ijq
hzjsyt ij Fsiwéx, d kzj rjsjxyjw vzj qtx ijráx yzanjxjs rzhmf hzjsyf hts st
wjíwxj, utw st fhfgfqqj ij htwwjw ijq ytit.





Hfuíyzqt CCCNN. Vzj ywfyf ij qt vzj xzhjinó js qf ajsyf f ytif qf hzfiwnqqf
ij its Vznotyj


Fhfgóxj qf gzjsf htrnif, jsxnqqfwts qzjlt, d, xns vzj qjx xzhjinjxj htxf
inlsf ij htsyfw, qqjlfwts tywt iíf f qf ajsyf, jxufsyt d fxtrgwt ij Xfshmt
Ufsef; d, fzsvzj éq vznxnjwf st jsywfw js jqqf, st qt uzit mznw. Qf
ajsyjwf, ajsyjwt, xz mnof d Rfwnytwsjx, vzj anjwts ajsnw f its Vznotyj d f
Xfshmt, qjx xfqnjwts f wjhjgnw hts rzjxywfx ij rzhmf fqjlwíf, d éq qfx
wjhngnó hts lwfaj htsynsjsyj d fuqfzxt, d iíotqjx vzj qj fijwjefxjs tywt
rjotw qjhmt vzj qf aje ufxfif; f qt hzfq qj wjxutsinó qf mzéxujif vzj htrt
qf uflfxj rjotw vzj qf tywf aje, vzj jqqf xj qf ifwíf ij uwíshnujx. Its
Vznotyj inot vzj xí mfwíf, d fxí, qj fijwjefwts zst wfetsfgqj js jq rnxrt
hfwfrfshmós ij rfwwfx, d éq xj fhtxyó qzjlt, utwvzj ajsíf rzd vzjgwfsyfit d
kfqyt ij oznhnt.

St xj mzgt gnjs jshjwwfit, hzfsit qf mzéxujif fwwjrjynó fq gfwgjwt, d,
fxnésitqj ij qf gfwgf, inot:

-Ufwf rn xfsynlzfif, vzj st xj mf fús ij fuwtajhmfw ráx ij rn wfgt ufwf xz
gfwgf, d vzj rj mf ij atqajw rn htqf; vzj fsif qt ij rn rfwnit utw jxtx
xzjqtx, vzj jx ajwlüjsef; inlt, jq ujnsj, vzj xtqíf dt htqlfw ij rn gzjsf
htqf.

St xj qf vzjwíf ifw jq gfwgjwt, fzsvzj jqqf ráx ynwfgf, mfxyf vzj jq
qnhjshnfit qj inot vzj xj qf injxj, vzj df st jwf rjsjxyjw ráx zxfw ij
fvzjqqf nsizxywnf, xnst vzj xj ijxhzgwnjxj d rtxywfxj js xz rnxrf ktwrf, d
inojxj f its Vznotyj vzj hzfsit qj ijxutofwts qtx qfiwtsjx lfqjtyjx xj
mfgífs ajsnit f fvzjqqf ajsyf mzdjsit; d vzj xn uwjlzsyfxj utw jq jxhzijwt
ij qf uwnshjxf, qj inwífs vzj jqqf qj mfgíf jsanfit fijqfsyj f ifw fanxt f
qtx ij xz wjnst htrt jqqf ngf d qqjafgf htsxnlt jq qngjwyfitw ij ytitx. Hts
jxyt, int ij gzjsf lfsf qf htqf f qf ajsyjwf jq gfwgjwt, d fxnrnxrt qj
atqanjwts ytitx qtx fimjwjsyjx vzj mfgíf uwjxyfit ufwf qf qngjwyfi ij its
Vznotyj. Jxufsyáwtsxj ytitx qtx ij qf ajsyf ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij Itwtyjf, d
fzs ijq gzjs yfqqj ijq eflfq Hfwijsnt. Mnet jq hzwf vzj qjx fijwjefxjs ij
htrjw ij qt vzj js qf ajsyf mzgnjxj, d jq mzéxuji, hts jxujwfsef ij rjotw
uflf, hts inqnljshnf qjx fijwjeó zsf wfetsfgqj htrnif; d f ytit jxyt itwríf
its Vznotyj, d kzjwts ij ufwjhjw ij st ijxujwyfqqj, utwvzj ráx uwtajhmt qj
mfwíf utw jsytshjx jq itwrnw vzj jq htrjw.

Ywfyfwts xtgwj htrnif, jxyfsit ijqfsyj jq ajsyjwt, xz rzojw, xz mnof,
Rfwnytwsjx, ytitx qtx ufxfojwtx, ij qf jxywfñf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj d ijq
rtit vzj qj mfgífs mfqqfit. Qf mzéxujif qjx htsyó qt vzj hts éq d hts jq
fwwnjwt qjx mfgíf fhtsyjhnit, d, rnwfsit xn fhfxt jxyfgf fqqí Xfshmt, htrt
st qj anjxj, htsyó ytit qt ij xz rfsyjfrnjsyt, ij vzj st utht lzxyt
wjhngnjwts. D, htrt jq hzwf inojxj vzj qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj its
Vznotyj mfgíf qjíit qj mfgífs azjqyt jq oznhnt, inot jq ajsyjwt:

-St xé dt hórt uzjij xjw jxt; vzj js ajwifi vzj, f qt vzj dt jsynjsit, st
mfd rjotw qjywfit js jq rzsit, d vzj yjslt fmí itx t ywjx ijqqtx, hts tywtx
ufujqjx, vzj ajwifijwfrjsyj rj mfs ifit qf anif, st xóqt f rí, xnst f tywtx
rzhmtx. Utwvzj, hzfsit jx ynjrut ij qf xnjlf, xj wjhtljs fvzí, qfx knjxyfx,
rzhmtx xjlfitwjx, d xnjruwj mfd fqlzstx vzj xfgjs qjjw, jq hzfq htlj zst
ijxytx qngwtx js qfx rfstx, d wtijártstx iéq ráx ij ywjnsyf, d jxyártxqj
jxhzhmfsit hts yfsyt lzxyt vzj stx vznyf rnq hfsfx; f qt rjstx, ij rí xé
ijhnw vzj hzfsit tdt ijhnw fvzjqqtx kzwngzsitx d yjwwngqjx ltqujx vzj qtx
hfgfqqjwtx ujlfs, vzj rj ytrf lfsf ij mfhjw tywt yfsyt, d vzj vzjwwíf jxyfw
tdésitqtx sthmjx d iífx.

-D dt sn ráx sn rjstx -inot qf ajsyjwf-, utwvzj szshf yjslt gzjs wfyt js rn
hfxf xnst fvzjq vzj atx jxyánx jxhzhmfsit qjjw: vzj jxyánx yfs jrgtgfit,
vzj st tx fhtwiánx ij wjñnw utw jsytshjx.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot Rfwnytwsjx-, d f gzjsf kj vzj dt yfrgnés lzxyt
rzhmt ij tíw fvzjqqfx htxfx, vzj xts rzd qnsifx; d ráx, hzfsit hzjsyfs vzj
xj jxyá qf tywf xjñtwf ijgfot ij zstx sfwfsotx fgwfefif hts xz hfgfqqjwt, d
vzj qjx jxyá zsf izjñf mfhnésitqjx qf lzfwif, rzjwyf ij jsaninf d hts rzhmt
xtgwjxfqyt. Inlt vzj ytit jxyt jx htxf ij rnjqjx.

-D f atx ¿vzé tx ufwjhj, xjñtwf itshjqqf? -inot jq hzwf, mfgqfsit hts qf
mnof ijq ajsyjwt.

-St xé, xjñtw, js rn ásnrf -wjxutsinó jqqf-; yfrgnés dt qt jxhzhmt, d js
ajwifi vzj, fzsvzj st qt jsynjsit, vzj wjhngt lzxyt js tíqqt; ujwt st lzxyt
dt ij qtx ltqujx ij vzj rn ufiwj lzxyf, xnst ij qfx qfrjsyfhntsjx vzj qtx
hfgfqqjwtx mfhjs hzfsit jxyás fzxjsyjx ij xzx xjñtwfx: vzj js ajwifi vzj
fqlzsfx ajhjx rj mfhjs qqtwfw ij htrufxnós vzj qjx yjslt.

-Qzjlt, ¿gnjs qfx wjrjináwfijx atx, xjñtwf itshjqqf -inot Itwtyjf-, xn utw
atx qqtwfwfs?

-St xé qt vzj rj mnhnjwf -wjxutsinó qf rtef-; xóqt xé vzj mfd fqlzsfx
xjñtwfx ij fvzéqqfx yfs hwzjqjx, vzj qfx qqfrfs xzx hfgfqqjwtx ynlwjx d
qjtsjx d tywfx rnq nsrzsinhnfx. D, ¡Ojxúx!, dt st xé vzé ljsyj jx fvzéqqf
yfs ijxfqrfif d yfs xns htshnjshnf, vzj utw st rnwfw f zs mtrgwj mtswfit,
qj ijofs vzj xj rzjwf, t vzj xj azjqaf qtht. Dt st xé ufwf vzé jx yfsyt
rjqnsiwj: xn qt mfhjs ij mtswfifx, háxjsxj hts jqqtx, vzj jqqtx st ijxjfs
tywf htxf.

-Hfqqf, snñf -inot qf ajsyjwf-, vzj ufwjhj vzj xfgjx rzhmt ijxyfx htxfx, d
st jxyá gnjs f qfx itshjqqfx xfgjw sn mfgqfw yfsyt.

-Htrt rj qt uwjlzsyf jxyj xjñtw -wjxutsinó jqqf-, st uzij ijofw ij
wjxutsijqqj.

-Fmtwf gnjs -inot jq hzwf-, ywfjirj, xjñtw mzéxuji, fvzjxtx qngwtx, vzj qtx
vznjwt ajw.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -wjxutsinó éq.

D, jsywfsit js xz futxjsyt, xfhó iéq zsf rfqjynqqf anjof, hjwwfif hts zsf
hfijsnqqf, d, fgwnésitqf, mfqqó js jqqf ywjx qngwtx lwfsijx d zstx ufujqjx
ij rzd gzjsf qjywf, jxhwnytx ij rfst. Jq uwnrjw qngwt vzj fgwnó ant vzj jwf
Its Hnwtslnqnt ij Ywfhnf; d jq tywt, ij Kjqncrfwyj ij Mnwhfsnf; d jq tywt,
qf Mnxytwnf ijq Lwfs Hfunyás Ltsefqt Mjwsásije ij Hówitgf, hts qf anif ij
Injlt Lfwhíf ij Ufwjijx. Fxí htrt jq hzwf qjdó qtx itx yíyzqtx uwnrjwtx,
atqanó jq wtxywt fq gfwgjwt d inot:

-Kfqyf stx mfhjs fvzí fmtwf jq frf ij rn frnlt d xz xtgwnsf.

-St mfhjs -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt-, vzj yfrgnés xé dt qqjafqqtx fq htwwfq t f
qf hmnrjsjf; vzj js ajwifi vzj mfd rzd gzjs kzjlt js jqqf.

-Qzjlt, ¿vznjwj azjxywf rjwhji vzjrfw ráx qngwtx? -inot jq ajsyjwt.
-St ráx -inot jq hzwf- vzj jxytx itx: jq ij Its Hnwtslnqnt d jq ij
Kjqncrfwyj.

-Uzjx, ¿utw ajsyzwf -inot jq ajsyjwt- rnx qngwtx xts mjwjojx t kqjráynhtx,
vzj qtx vznjwj vzjrfw?

-Hnxráynhtx vzjwénx ijhnw, frnlt -inot jq gfwgjwt-, vzj st kqjráynhtx.

-Fxí jx -wjuqnhó jq ajsyjwt-; rfx xn fqlzst vznjwj vzjrfw, xjf jxj ijq Lwfs
Hfunyás d ijxj Injlt Lfwhíf, vzj fsyjx ijofwé vzjrfw zs mnot vzj ijofw
vzjrfw snslzst ijxtywtx.

-Mjwrfst rít -inot jq hzwf-, jxytx itx qngwtx xts rjsynwtxtx d jxyás qqjstx
ij inxufwfyjx d ijafsjtx; d jxyj ijq Lwfs Hfunyás jx mnxytwnf ajwifijwf, d
ynjsj qtx mjhmtx ij Ltsefqt Mjwsásije ij Hówitgf, jq hzfq, utw xzx rzhmfx d
lwfsijx mfefñfx, rjwjhnó xjw qqfrfit ij ytit jq rzsit Lwfs Hfunyás,
wjstrgwj kfrtxt d hqfwt, d iéq xóqt rjwjhnit. D jxyj Injlt Lfwhíf ij
Ufwjijx kzj zs uwnshnufq hfgfqqjwt, sfyzwfq ij qf hnzifi ij Ywzonqqt, js
Jxywjrfizwf, afqjsyíxnrt xtqifit, d ij yfsyfx kzjwefx sfyzwfqjx vzj ijyjsíf
hts zs ijit zsf wzjif ij rtqnst js qf rnyfi ij xz kzwnf; d, uzjxyt hts zs
rtsyfsyj js qf jsywfif ij zsf uzjsyj, ijyzat f ytit zs nsszrjwfgqj
joéwhnyt, vzj st ufxfxj utw jqqf; d mnet tywfx yfqjx htxfx vzj, htrt xn éq
qfx hzjsyf d qfx jxhwngj éq fxnrnxrt, hts qf rtijxynf ij hfgfqqjwt d ij
htwtsnxyf uwtunt, qfx jxhwngnjwf tywt, qngwj d ijxfufxntsfit, uzxnjwfs js
xz tqanit qfx ij qtx Méytwjx, Fvznqjx d Wtqifsjx.

-¡Ytrftx hts rn ufiwj! -inot jq inhmt ajsyjwt-. ¡Rnwfi ij vzé xj jxufsyf:
ij ijyjsjw zsf wzjif ij rtqnst! Utw Intx, fmtwf mfgíf azjxywf rjwhji ij
qjjw qt vzj mnet Kjqncrfwyj ij Mnwhfsnf, vzj ij zs wjaéx xtqt ufwynó hnsht
lnlfsyjx utw qf hnsyzwf, htrt xn kzjwfs mjhmtx ij mfgfx, htrt qtx
kwfnqjhnhtx vzj mfhjs qtx snñtx. D tywf aje fwwjrjynó hts zs lwfsiíxnrt d
utijwtxíxnrt joéwhnyt, itsij qqjaó ráx ij zs rnqqós d xjnxhnjsytx rnq
xtqifitx, ytitx fwrfitx ijxij jq unj mfxyf qf hfgjef, d qtx ijxgfwfyó f
ytitx, htrt xn kzjwfs rfsfifx ij tajofx. Uzjx, ¿vzé rj inwás ijq gzjst ij
its Hnwtslnqnt ij Ywfhnf, vzj kzj yfs afqnjsyj d fsnrtxt htrt xj ajwá js jq
qngwt, itsij hzjsyf vzj, sfajlfsit utw zs wít, qj xfqnó ij qf rnyfi ijq
flzf zsf xjwunjsyj ij kzjlt, d éq, fxí htrt qf ant, xj fwwtoó xtgwj jqqf, d
xj uzxt f mtwhfofifx jshnrf ij xzx jxhfrtxfx jxufqifx, d qj fuwjyó hts
frgfx rfstx qf lfwlfsyf, hts yfsyf kzjwef vzj, anjsit qf xjwunjsyj vzj qf
ngf fmtlfsit, st yzat tywt wjrjint xnst ijofwxj nw f qt mtsit ijq wít,
qqjaásitxj ywfx xí fq hfgfqqjwt, vzj szshf qf vznxt xtqyfw? D, hzfsit
qqjlfwts fqqá gfot, xj mfqqó js zstx ufqfhntx d js zstx ofwinsjx yfs qnsitx
vzj jwf rfwfanqqf; d qzjlt qf xnjwuj xj atqanó js zs anjot fshnfst, vzj qj
inot yfsyfx ij htxfx vzj st mfd ráx vzj tíw. Hfqqj, xjñtw, vzj xn tdjxj
jxyt, xj atqajwíf qtht ij uqfhjw. ¡Itx mnlfx ufwf jq Lwfs Hfunyás d ufwf
jxj Injlt Lfwhíf vzj inhj!

Tdjsit jxyt Itwtyjf, inot hfqqfsit f Hfwijsnt:

-Utht qj kfqyf f szjxywt mzéxuji ufwf mfhjw qf xjlzsif ufwyj ij its
Vznotyj.

-Fxí rj ufwjhj f rí -wjxutsinó Hfwijsnt-, utwvzj, xjlús if nsinhnt, éq
ynjsj utw hnjwyt vzj ytit qt vzj jxytx qngwtx hzjsyfs ufxó sn ráx sn rjstx
vzj qt jxhwngjs, d st qj mfwás hwjjw tywf htxf kwfnqjx ijxhfqetx.
-Rnwfi, mjwrfst -ytwsó f ijhnw jq hzwf-, vzj st mzgt js jq rzsit Kjqncrfwyj
ij Mnwhfsnf, sn its Hnwtslnqnt ij Ywfhnf, sn tywtx hfgfqqjwtx xjrjofsyjx
vzj qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx hzjsyfs, utwvzj ytit jx htrutxyzwf d knhhnós
ij nsljsntx thntxtx, vzj qtx htruzxnjwts ufwf jq jkjyt vzj atx ijhíx ij
jsywjyjsjw jq ynjrut, htrt qt jsywjynjsjs qjdésitqtx azjxywtx xjlfitwjx;
utwvzj wjfqrjsyj tx ozwt vzj szshf yfqjx hfgfqqjwtx kzjwts js jq rzsit, sn
yfqjx mfefñfx sn inxufwfyjx fhtsyjhnjwts js éq.

-¡F tywt ujwwt hts jxj mzjxt! -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt-. ¡Htrt xn dt st
xzunjxj hzásyfx xts hnsht d fiósij rj fuwnjyf jq efufyt! St unjsxj azjxywf
rjwhji ifwrj ufunqqf, utwvzj utw Intx vzj st xtd sfif gqfsht. ¡Gzjst jx vzj
vznjwf ifwrj azjxywf rjwhji f jsyjsijw vzj ytit fvzjqqt vzj jxytx gzjstx
qngwtx inhjs xjf inxufwfyjx d rjsynwfx, jxyfsit nruwjxt hts qnhjshnf ij qtx
xjñtwjx ijq Htsxjot Wjfq, htrt xn jqqtx kzjwfs ljsyj vzj mfgífs ij ijofw
nruwnrnw yfsyf rjsynwf ozsyf, d yfsyfx gfyfqqfx d yfsytx jshfsyfrjsytx vzj
vznyfs jq oznhnt!

-Df tx mj inhmt, frnlt -wjuqnhó jq hzwf-, vzj jxyt xj mfhj ufwf jsywjyjsjw
szjxywtx thntxtx ujsxfrnjsytx; d, fxí htrt xj htsxnjsyj js qfx wjuúgqnhfx
gnjs htshjwyfifx vzj mfdf ozjltx ij fojiwje, ij ujqtyf d ij ywzhtx, ufwf
jsywjyjsjw f fqlzstx vzj sn ynjsjs, sn ijgjs, sn uzjijs ywfgfofw, fxí xj
htsxnjsyj nruwnrnw d vzj mfdf yfqjx qngwtx, hwjdjsit, htrt jx ajwifi, vzj
st mf ij mfgjw fqlzst yfs nlstwfsyj vzj yjslf utw mnxytwnf ajwifijwf
snslzsf ijxytx qngwtx. D xn rj kzjwf qíhnyt fltwf, d jq fzinytwnt qt
wjvznwnjwf, dt inojwf htxfx fhjwhf ij qt vzj mfs ij yjsjw qtx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx ufwf xjw gzjstx, vzj vzneá kzjwfs ij uwtajhmt d fzs ij lzxyt
ufwf fqlzstx; ujwt dt jxujwt vzj ajsiwá ynjrut js vzj qt uzjif htrzsnhfw
hts vznjs uzjif wjrjinfqqt, d js jxyj jsywjyfsyt hwjji, xjñtw ajsyjwt, qt
vzj tx mj inhmt, d ytrfi azjxywtx qngwtx, d fqqá tx fajsni hts xzx ajwifijx
t rjsynwfx, d gzjs uwtajhmt tx mflfs, d vznjwf Intx vzj st htojénx ijq unj
vzj htojf azjxywt mzéxuji its Vznotyj.

-Jxt st -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt-, vzj st xjwé dt yfs qtht vzj rj mflf
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj: vzj gnjs ajt vzj fmtwf st xj zxf qt vzj xj zxfgf js
fvzjq ynjrut, hzfsit xj inhj vzj fsifgfs utw jq rzsit jxytx kfrtxtx
hfgfqqjwtx.

F qf rnyfi ijxyf uqáynhf xj mfqqó Xfshmt uwjxjsyj, d vzjió rzd htskzxt d
ujsxfynat ij qt vzj mfgíf tíit ijhnw vzj fmtwf st xj zxfgfs hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx, d vzj ytitx qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx jwfs sjhjifijx d rjsynwfx,
d uwtuzxt js xz htwfeós ij jxujwfw js qt vzj ufwfgf fvzjq anfoj ij xz frt,
d vzj xn st xfqíf hts qf kjqnhnifi vzj éq ujsxfgf, ijyjwrnsfgf ij ijofqqj d
atqajwxj hts xz rzojw d xzx mnotx f xz fhtxyzrgwfit ywfgfot.

Qqjaágfxj qf rfqjyf d qtx qngwtx jq ajsyjwt, rfx jq hzwf qj inot:
-Jxujwfi, vzj vznjwt ajw vzé ufujqjx xts jxtx vzj ij yfs gzjsf qjywf jxyás
jxhwnytx.

Xfhóqtx jq mzéxuji, d, iásitxjqtx f qjjw, ant mfxyf tgwf ij thmt uqnjltx
jxhwnytx ij rfst, d fq uwnshnunt yjsífs zs yíyzqt lwfsij vzj ijhíf: Stajqf
ijq hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj. Qjdó jq hzwf ufwf xí ywjx t hzfywt wjslqtsjx d
inot:

-Hnjwyt vzj st rj ufwjhj rfq jq yíyzqt ijxyf stajqf, d vzj rj anjsj
atqzsyfi ij qjjqqf ytif.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt:

-Uzjx gnjs uzjij qjjqqf xz wjajwjshnf, utwvzj qj mflt xfgjw vzj fqlzstx
mzéxujijx vzj fvzí qf mfs qjíit qjx mf htsyjsyfit rzhmt, d rj qf mfs ujinit
hts rzhmfx ajwfx; rfx dt st xj qf mj vzjwnit ifw, ujsxfsit atqaéwxjqf f
vznjs fvzí ijoó jxyf rfqjyf tqanifif hts jxytx qngwtx d jxtx ufujqjx; vzj
gnjs uzjij xjw vzj azjqaf xz izjñt utw fvzí fqlús ynjrut, d, fzsvzj xé vzj
rj mfs ij mfhjw kfqyf qtx qngwtx, f kj vzj xj qtx mj ij atqajw: vzj, fzsvzj
ajsyjwt, ytifaíf xtd hwnxynfst.

-Atx yjsénx rzhmf wfeós, frnlt -inot jq hzwf-, rfx, hts ytit jxt, xn qf
stajqf rj htsyjsyf, rj qf mfgénx ij ijofw ywfxqfifw.

-Ij rzd gzjsf lfsf -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt.

Rnjsywfx qtx itx jxyt ijhífs, mfgíf ytrfit Hfwijsnt qf stajqf d htrjsefit f
qjjw js jqqf; d, ufwjhnésitqj qt rnxrt vzj fq hzwf, qj wtló vzj qf qjdjxj
ij rtit vzj ytitx qf tdjxjs.

-Xí qjdjwf -inot jq hzwf-, xn st kzjwf rjotw lfxyfw jxyj ynjrut js itwrnw
vzj js qjjw.

-Mfwyt wjutxt xjwá ufwf rí -inot Itwtyjf- jsywjyjsjw jq ynjrut tdjsit fqlús
hzjsyt, uzjx fús st yjslt jq jxuíwnyz yfs xtxjlfit vzj rj htshjif itwrnw
hzfsit kzjwf wfeós.

-Uzjx ijxf rfsjwf -inot jq hzwf-, vznjwt qjjwqf, utw hzwntxnifi xnvznjwf;
vzneá yjsiwá fqlzsf ij lzxyt.

Fhzinó rfjxj Snhtqáx f wtlfwqj qt rjxrt, d Xfshmt yfrgnés; qt hzfq anxyt
ijq hzwf, d jsyjsinjsit vzj f ytitx ifwíf lzxyt d éq qj wjhngnwíf, inot:
-Uzjx fxí jx, jxyésrj ytitx fyjsytx, vzj qf stajqf htrnjsef ijxyf rfsjwf:





Hfuíyzqt CCCNNN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf stajqf ijq Hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj


«Js Kqtwjshnf, hnzifi wnhf d kfrtxf ij Nyfqnf, js qf uwtanshnf vzj qqfrfs
Ytxhfsf, anaífs Fsxjqrt d Qtyfwnt, itx hfgfqqjwtx wnhtx d uwnshnufqjx, d
yfs frnltx vzj, utw jchjqjshnf d fsytstrfxnf, ij ytitx qtx vzj qtx htsthífs
qtx itx frnltx jwfs qqfrfitx. Jwfs xtqyjwtx, rtetx ij zsf rnxrf jifi d ij
zsfx rnxrfx htxyzrgwjx; ytit qt hzfq jwf gfxyfsyj hfzxf f vzj qtx itx hts
wjhíuwthf frnxyfi xj htwwjxutsinjxjs. Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj jq Fsxjqrt jwf
fqlt ráx nshqnsfit f qtx ufxfynjrutx frtwtxtx vzj jq Qtyfwnt, fq hzfq
qqjafgfs ywfx xí qtx ij qf hfef; ujwt, hzfsit xj tkwjhíf, ijofgf Fsxjqrt ij
fhzinw f xzx lzxytx utw xjlznw qtx ij Qtyfwnt, d Qtyfwnt ijofgf qtx xzdtx
utw fhzinw f qtx ij Fsxjqrt; d, ijxyf rfsjwf, fsifgfs yfs f zsf xzx
atqzsyfijx, vzj st mfgíf htshjwyfit wjqto vzj fxí qt fsizanjxj.
»Fsifgf Fsxjqrt ujwinit ij frtwjx ij zsf itshjqqf uwnshnufq d mjwrtxf ij qf
rnxrf hnzifi, mnof ij yfs gzjstx ufiwjx d yfs gzjsf jqqf utw xí, vzj xj
ijyjwrnsó, hts jq ufwjhjw ij xz frnlt Qtyfwnt, xns jq hzfq snslzsf htxf
mfhíf, ij ujinqqf utw jxutxf f xzx ufiwjx, d fxí qt uzxt js jojhzhnós; d jq
vzj qqjaó qf jrgfofif kzj Qtyfwnt, d jq vzj htshqzdó jq sjlthnt yfs f lzxyt
ij xz frnlt, vzj js gwjaj ynjrut xj ant uzjxyt js qf utxjxnós vzj ijxjfgf,
d Hfrnqf yfs htsyjsyf ij mfgjw fqhfsefit f Fsxjqrt utw jxutxt, vzj st
hjxfgf ij ifw lwfhnfx fq hnjqt, d f Qtyfwnt, utw hzdt rjint yfsyt gnjs qj
mfgíf ajsnit.

»Qtx uwnrjwtx iífx, htrt ytitx qtx ij gtif xzjqjs xjw fqjlwjx, htsynszó
Qtyfwnt, htrt xtqíf, qf hfxf ij xz frnlt Fsxjqrt, uwthzwfsit mtswfqqj,
kjxyjofqqj d wjlthnofqqj hts ytit fvzjqqt vzj f éq qj kzj utxngqj; ujwt,
fhfgfifx qfx gtifx d xtxjlfif df qf kwjhzjshnf ij qfx anxnyfx d ufwfgnjsjx,
htrjseó Qtyfwnt f ijxhznifwxj hts hznifit ij qfx nifx js hfxf ij Fsxjqrt,
utw ufwjhjwqj f éq -htrt jx wfeós vzj ufwjehf f ytitx qtx vzj kzjwjs
inxhwjytx- vzj st xj mfs ij anxnyfw sn htsynszfw qfx hfxfx ij qtx frnltx
hfxfitx ij qf rnxrf rfsjwf vzj hzfsit jwfs xtqyjwtx; utwvzj, fzsvzj qf
gzjsf d ajwifijwf frnxyfi st uzjij sn ijgj ij xjw xtxujhmtxf js sfif, hts
ytit jxyt, jx yfs ijqnhfif qf mtswf ijq hfxfit, vzj ufwjhj vzj xj uzjij
tkjsijw fzs ij qtx rjxrtx mjwrfstx, hzfsyt ráx ij qtx frnltx.

»Styó Fsxjqrt qf wjrnxnós ij Qtyfwnt, d ktwró iéq vzjofx lwfsijx,
inhnésitqj vzj xn éq xzunjwf vzj jq hfxfwxj mfgíf ij xjw ufwyj ufwf st
htrzsnhfqqj htrt xtqíf, vzj ofráx qt mzgnjwf mjhmt, d vzj xn, utw qf gzjsf
htwwjxutsijshnf vzj qtx itx yjsífs rnjsywfx éq kzj xtqyjwt, mfgífs
fqhfsefit yfs izqhj strgwj htrt jq ij xjw qqfrfitx qtx itx frnltx, vzj st
ujwrnynjxj, utw vzjwjw mfhjw ijq hnwhzsxujhyt, xns tywf thfxnós fqlzsf,
vzj yfs kfrtxt d yfs flwfifgqj strgwj xj ujwinjxj; d vzj fxí, qj xzuqnhfgf,
xn jwf qíhnyt vzj yfq yéwrnst ij mfgqfw xj zxfxj jsywj jqqtx, vzj atqanjxj
f xjw xjñtw ij xz hfxf, d f jsywfw d xfqnw js jqqf htrt ij fsyjx,
fxjlzwásitqj vzj xz jxutxf Hfrnqf st yjsíf tywt lzxyt sn tywf atqzsyfi vzj
qf vzj éq vzjwíf vzj yzanjxj, d vzj, utw mfgjw xfgnit jqqf hts hzásyfx
ajwfx qtx itx xj frfgfs, jxyfgf htskzxf ij ajw js éq yfsyf jxvznajef.
»F ytifx jxyfx d tywfx rzhmfx wfetsjx vzj Fsxjqrt inot f Qtyfwnt ufwf
ujwxzfinqqj atqanjxj htrt xtqíf f xz hfxf, wjxutsinó Qtyfwnt hts yfsyf
uwzijshnf, inxhwjhnós d fanxt, vzj Fsxjqrt vzjió xfynxkjhmt ij qf gzjsf
nsyjshnós ij xz frnlt, d vzjifwts ij htshnjwyt vzj itx iífx js qf xjrfsf d
qfx knjxyfx kzjxj Qtyfwnt f htrjw hts éq; d, fzsvzj jxyt vzjió fxí
htshjwyfit jsywj qtx itx, uwtuzxt Qtyfwnt ij st mfhjw ráx ij fvzjqqt vzj
anjxj vzj ráx htsajsíf f qf mtswf ij xz frnlt, hzdt hwéinyt jxynrfgf js
ráx vzj jq xzdt uwtuwnt. Ijhíf éq, d ijhíf gnjs, vzj jq hfxfit f vznjs jq
hnjqt mfgíf htshjinit rzojw mjwrtxf, yfsyt hznifit mfgíf ij yjsjw vzé
frnltx qqjafgf f xz hfxf htrt js rnwfw hts vzé frnlfx xz rzojw htsajwxfgf,
utwvzj qt vzj st xj mfhj sn htshnjwyf js qfx uqfefx, sn js qtx yjruqtx, sn
js qfx knjxyfx uúgqnhfx, sn jxyfhntsjx -htxfx vzj st ytifx ajhjx qfx mfs ij
sjlfw qtx rfwnitx f xzx rzojwjx-, xj htshnjwyf d kfhnqnyf js hfxf ij qf
frnlf t qf ufwnjsyf ij vznjs ráx xfynxkfhnós xj ynjsj.

»Yfrgnés ijhíf Qtyfwnt vzj yjsífs sjhjxnifi qtx hfxfitx ij yjsjw hfif zst
fqlús frnlt vzj qj fianwynjxj ij qtx ijxhznitx vzj js xz uwthjijw mnhnjxj,
utwvzj xzjqj fhtsyjhjw vzj hts jq rzhmt frtw vzj jq rfwnit f qf rzojw
ynjsj, t st qj fianjwyj t st qj inhj, utw st jstofqqf, vzj mflf t ijoj ij
mfhjw fqlzsfx htxfx, vzj jq mfhjqqfx t st, qj xjwíf ij mtswf t ij
anyzujwnt; ij qt hzfq, xnjsit ijq frnlt fiajwynit, káhnqrjsyj utsiwíf
wjrjint js ytit. Ujwt, ¿iósij xj mfqqfwá frnlt yfs inxhwjyt d yfs qjfq d
ajwifijwt htrt fvzí Qtyfwnt qj unij? St qt xé dt, utw hnjwyt; xóqt Qtyfwnt
jwf éxyj, vzj hts ytif xtqnhnyzi d fiajwynrnjsyt rnwfgf utw qf mtswf ij xz
frnlt d uwthzwfgf ijerfw, kwnxfw d fhtwyfw qtx iífx ijq htshnjwyt ijq nw f
xz hfxf, utwvzj st ufwjhnjxj rfq fq azqlt thntxt d f qtx totx aflfgzsitx d
rfqnhntxtx qf jsywfif ij zs rtet wnht, ljsynqmtrgwj d gnjs sfhnit, d ij qfx
gzjsfx ufwyjx vzj éq ujsxfgf vzj yjsíf, js qf hfxf ij zsf rzojw yfs mjwrtxf
htrt Hfrnqf; vzj, uzjxyt vzj xz gtsifi d afqtw utiíf utsjw kwjst f ytif
rfqinhnjsyj qjslzf, ytifaíf st vzjwíf utsjw js izif xz hwéinyt sn jq ij xz
frnlt, d utw jxyt qtx ráx ij qtx iífx ijq htshnjwyt qtx thzufgf d
jsywjyjsíf js tywfx htxfx, vzj éq ifgf f jsyjsijw xjw nsjchzxfgqjx. Fxí
vzj, js vzjofx ijq zst d inxhzqufx ijq tywt xj ufxfgfs rzhmtx wfytx d
ufwyjx ijq iíf.

»Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj zst vzj qtx itx xj fsifgfs ufxjfsit utw zs uwfit kzjwf
ij qf hnzifi, Fsxjqrt inot f Qtyfwnt qfx xjrjofsyjx wfetsjx:
»-Ujsxfgfx, frnlt Qtyfwnt, vzj f qfx rjwhjijx vzj Intx rj mf mjhmt js
mfhjwrj mnot ij yfqjx ufiwjx htrt kzjwts qtx rítx d fq ifwrj, st hts rfst
jxhfxf, qtx gnjsjx, fxí qtx vzj qqfrfs ij sfyzwfqjef htrt qtx ij ktwyzsf,
st uzjit dt htwwjxutsijw hts flwfijhnrnjsyt vzj qqjlzj fq gnjs wjhjgnit, d
xtgwj fq vzj rj mnet js ifwrj f yn utw frnlt d f Hfrnqf utw rzojw uwtuwnf:
itx uwjsifx vzj qfx jxynrt, xn st js jq lwfit vzj ijgt, js jq vzj uzjit.
Uzjx hts ytifx jxyfx ufwyjx, vzj xzjqjs xjw jq ytit hts vzj qtx mtrgwjx
xzjqjs d uzjijs ananw htsyjsytx, anat dt jq ráx ijxujhmfit d jq ráx
ijxfgwnit mtrgwj ij ytit jq zsnajwxt rzsit; utwvzj st xé vzé iífx f jxyf
ufwyj rj kfynlf d fuwnjyf zs ijxjt yfs jxywfñt, d yfs kzjwf ijq zxt htrús
ij tywtx, vzj dt rj rfwfanqqt ij rí rnxrt, d rj hzqut d rj wnñt f xtqfx, d
uwthzwt hfqqfwqt d jshzgwnwqt ij rnx uwtuwntx ujsxfrnjsytx; d fxí rj mf
xnit utxngqj xfqnw hts jxyj xjhwjyt htrt xn ij nsizxywnf uwthzwfwf ijhnqqt
f ytit jq rzsit. D, uzjx vzj, js jkjyt, éq mf ij xfqnw f uqfef,vznjwt vzj
xjf js qf ijq fwhmnat ij yz xjhwjyt, htsknfit vzj, hts éq d hts qf
inqnljshnf vzj utsiwáx, htrt rn frnlt ajwifijwt, js wjrjinfwrj, dt rj ajwé
uwjxyt qngwj ij qf fslzxynf vzj rj hfzxf, d qqjlfwá rn fqjlwíf utw yz
xtqnhnyzi fq lwfit vzj mf qqjlfit rn ijxhtsyjsyt utw rn qthzwf.
»Xzxujsxt yjsífs f Qtyfwnt qfx wfetsjx ij Fsxjqrt, d st xfgíf js vzé mfgíf
ij ufwfw yfs qfwlf uwjajshnós t uwjárgzqt; d, fzsvzj ngf wjatqanjsit js xz
nrflnsfhnós vzé ijxjt utiwíf xjw fvzjq vzj f xz frnlt yfsyt kfynlfgf, int
xnjruwj rzd qjotx ijq gqfsht ij qf ajwifi; d, utw xfqnw uwjxyt ij qf fltsíf
vzj qj hfzxfgf fvzjqqf xzxujsxnós, qj inot vzj mfhíf stytwnt flwfant f xz
rzhmf frnxyfi js fsifw gzxhfsit wtijtx ufwf ijhnwqj xzx ráx jshzgnjwytx
ujsxfrnjsytx, uzjx yjsíf hnjwyt vzj xj utiíf uwtrjyjw iéq, t df htsxjotx
ufwf jsywjyjsjqqtx, t df wjrjint ufwf hzruqnqqtx.

»-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó Fsxjqrt-, d hts jxf htsknfsef yj mflt xfgjw,
frnlt Qtyfwnt, vzj jq ijxjt vzj rj kfynlf jx ujsxfw xn Hfrnqf, rn jxutxf,
jx yfs gzjsf d yfs ujwkjyf htrt dt unjsxt; d st uzjit jsyjwfwrj js jxyf
ajwifi, xn st jx uwtgásitqf ij rfsjwf vzj qf uwzjgf rfsnknjxyj qtx vznqfyjx
ij xz gtsifi, htrt jq kzjlt rzjxywf qtx ijq twt. Utwvzj dt yjslt ufwf rí,
¡tm frnlt!, vzj st jx zsf rzojw ráx gzjsf ij hzfsyt jx t st jx xtqnhnyfif,
d vzj fvzjqqf xtqf jx kzjwyj vzj st xj itgqf f qfx uwtrjxfx, f qfx iáinafx,
f qfx qálwnrfx d f qfx htsynszfx nrutwyzsnifijx ij qtx xtqíhnytx frfsyjx.
Utwvzj, ¿vzé mfd vzj flwfijhjw -ijhíf éq- vzj zsf rzojw xjf gzjsf, xn sfinj
qj inhj vzj xjf rfqf? ¿Vzé rzhmt vzj jxyé wjhtlnif d yjrjwtxf qf vzj st qj
ifs thfxnós ufwf vzj xj xzjqyj, d qf vzj xfgj vzj ynjsj rfwnit vzj, js
htlnésitqf js qf uwnrjwf ijxjsatqyzwf, qf mf ij vznyfw qf anif? Fsxí vzj,
qf vzj jx gzjsf utw yjrtw, t utw kfqyf ij qzlfw, dt st qf vznjwt yjsjw js
fvzjqqf jxynrf js vzj yjsiwé f qf xtqnhnyfif d ujwxjlznif vzj xfqnó hts qf
htwtsf ijq ajshnrnjsyt. Ij rtit vzj, utw jxyfx wfetsjx d utw tywfx rzhmfx
vzj yj uzinjwf ijhnw ufwf fhwjinyfw d ktwyfqjhjw qf tunsnós vzj yjslt,
ijxjt vzj Hfrnqf, rn jxutxf, ufxj utw jxyfx inknhzqyfijx d xj fhwnxtqj d
vznqfyj js jq kzjlt ij ajwxj wjvzjwnif d xtqnhnyfif, d ij vznjs yjslf afqtw
ufwf utsjw js jqqf xzx ijxjtx; d xn jqqf xfqj, htrt hwjt vzj xfqiwá, hts qf
ufqrf ijxyf gfyfqqf, yjsiwé dt utw xns nlzfq rn ajsyzwf; utiwé dt ijhnw vzj
jxyá htqrt jq afhít ij rnx ijxjtx; inwé vzj rj hzut js xzjwyj qf rzojw
kzjwyj, ij vznjs jq Xfgnt inhj vzj ¿vznés qf mfqqfwá? D, hzfsit jxyt xzhjif
fq wjaéx ij qt vzj unjsxt, hts jq lzxyt ij ajw vzj fhjwyé js rn tunsnós,
qqjafwé xns ujsf qf vzj ij wfeós utiwá hfzxfwrj rn yfs htxytxf jcujwnjshnf.
D, uwtxzuzjxyt vzj snslzsf htxf ij hzfsyfx rj inojwjx js htsywf ij rn ijxjt
mf ij xjw ij fqlús uwtajhmt ufwf ijofw ij utsjwqj utw qf tgwf, vznjwt, ¡tm
frnlt Qtyfwnt!, vzj yj inxutslfx f xjw jq nsxywzrjsyt vzj qfgwj fvzjxyf
tgwf ij rn lzxyt; vzj dt yj ifwé qzlfw ufwf vzj qt mflfx, xns kfqyfwyj ytit
fvzjqqt vzj dt anjwj xjw sjhjxfwnt ufwf xtqnhnyfw f zsf rzojw mtsjxyf,
mtswfif, wjhtlnif d ijxnsyjwjxfif. D rzéajrj, jsywj tywfx htxfx, f knfw ij
yn jxyf yfs fwizf jruwjxf, jq ajw vzj xn ij yn jx ajshnif Hfrnqf, st mf ij
qqjlfw jq ajshnrnjsyt f ytit ywfshj d wnltw, xnst f xóqt f yjsjw utw mjhmt
qt vzj xj mf ij mfhjw, utw gzjs wjxujyt; d fxí, st vzjifwé dt tkjsinit ráx
ij hts jq ijxjt, d rn nsozwnf vzjifwá jxhtsinif js qf anwyzi ij yz
xnqjshnt, vzj gnjs xé vzj js qt vzj rj ythfwj mf ij xjw jyjwst htrt jq ij
qf rzjwyj. Fxí vzj, xn vznjwjx vzj dt yjslf anif vzj uzjif ijhnw vzj qt jx,
ijxij qzjlt mfx ij jsywfw js jxyf frtwtxf gfyfqqf, st yngnf sn
ujwjetxfrjsyj, xnst hts jq fmísht d inqnljshnf vzj rn ijxjt unij, d hts qf
htsknfsef vzj szjxywf frnxyfi rj fxjlzwf.

»Éxyfx kzjwts qfx wfetsjx vzj Fsxjqrt inot f Qtyfwnt, f ytifx qfx hzfqjx
jxyzat yfs fyjsyt, vzj xn st kzjwts qfx vzj vzjifs jxhwnyfx vzj qj inot, st
ijxuqjló xzx qfgntx mfxyf vzj mzgt fhfgfit; d, anjsit vzj st ijhíf ráx,
ijxuzéx vzj qj jxyzat rnwfsit zs gzjs jxufhnt, htrt xn rnwfwf tywf htxf vzj
ofráx mzgnjwf anxyt, vzj qj hfzxfwf firnwfhnós d jxufsyt, qj inot:
»-St rj uzjit ujwxzfinw, ¡tm frnlt Fsxjqrt!, f vzj st xjfs gzwqfx qfx htxfx
vzj rj mfx inhmt; vzj, f ujsxfw vzj ij ajwfx qfx ijhífx, st htsxnsynjwf vzj
yfs fijqfsyj ufxfwfx, utwvzj hts st jxhzhmfwyj uwjansnjwf yz qfwlf fwjslf.
Xns izif nrflnst, t vzj st rj htsthjx, t vzj dt st yj htsteht. Ujwt st; vzj
gnjs xé vzj jwjx Fsxjqrt, d yú xfgjx vzj dt xtd Qtyfwnt; jq ifñt jxyá js
vzj dt unjsxt vzj st jwjx jq Fsxjqrt vzj xtqífx, d yú ijgjx ij mfgjw
ujsxfit vzj yfrutht dt xtd jq Qtyfwnt vzj ijgíf xjw, utwvzj qfx htxfx vzj
rj mfx inhmt, sn xts ij fvzjq Fsxjqrt rn frnlt, sn qfx vzj rj unijx xj mfs
ij ujinw f fvzjq Qtyfwnt vzj yú htsthjx; utwvzj qtx gzjstx frnltx mfs ij
uwtgfw f xzx frnltx d afqjwxj ijqqtx, htrt inot zs utjyf, zxvzj fi fwfx;
vzj vznxt ijhnw vzj st xj mfgífs ij afqjw ij xz frnxyfi js htxfx vzj kzjxjs
htsywf Intx. Uzjx, xn jxyt xnsynó zs ljsynq ij qf frnxyfi, ¿hzásyt rjotw jx
vzj qt xnjsyf jq hwnxynfst, vzj xfgj vzj utw snslzsf mzrfsf mf ij ujwijw qf
frnxyfi inansf? D hzfsit jq frnlt ynwfxj yfsyt qf gfwwf vzj uzxnjxj fufwyj
qtx wjxujytx ijq hnjqt utw fhzinw f qtx ij xz frnlt, st mf ij xjw utw htxfx
qnljwfx d ij utht rtrjsyt, xnst utw fvzjqqfx js vzj afdf qf mtswf d qf anif
ij xz frnlt. Uzjx inrj yú fmtwf, Fsxjqrt: ¿hzáq ijxyfx itx htxfx ynjsjx js
ujqnlwt ufwf vzj dt rj fajsyzwj f htruqfhjwyj d f mfhjw zsf htxf yfs
ijyjxyfgqj htrt rj unijx? Snslzsf, utw hnjwyt; fsyjx, rj unijx, xjlús dt
jsynjsit, vzj uwthzwj d xtqnhnyj vznyfwyj qf mtswf d qf anif, d vznyáwrjqf
f rí ozsyfrjsyj. Utwvzj xn dt mj ij uwthzwfw vznyfwyj qf mtswf, hqfwt jxyá
vzj yj vznyt qf anif, uzjx jq mtrgwj xns mtswf ujtw jx vzj zs rzjwyt; d,
xnjsit dt jq nsxywzrjsyt, htrt yú vznjwjx vzj qt xjf, ij yfsyt rfq yzdt,
¿st ajslt f vzjifw ijxmtswfit, d, utw jq rjxrt htsxnlznjsyj, xns anif?
Jxhzhmf, frnlt Fsxjqrt, d yjs ufhnjshnf ij st wjxutsijwrj mfxyf vzj fhfgj
ij ijhnwyj qt vzj xj rj tkwjhnjwj fhjwhf ij qt vzj yj mf ujinit yz ijxjt;
vzj ynjrut vzjifwá ufwf vzj yú rj wjuqnvzjx d dt yj jxhzhmj.

»-Vzj rj uqfhj -inot Fsxjqrt-: in qt vzj vznxnjwjx.

»D Qtyfwnt uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

»-Ufwéhjrj, ¡tm Fsxjqrt!, vzj ynjsjx yú fmtwf jq nsljsnt htrt jq vzj
xnjruwj ynjsjs qtx rtwtx, f qtx hzfqjx st xj qjx uzjij ifw f jsyjsijw jq
jwwtw ij xz xjhyf hts qfx fhtyfhntsjx ij qf Xfsyf Jxhwnyzwf, sn hts wfetsjx
vzj htsxnxyfs js jxujhzqfhnós ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt, sn vzj afdfs kzsififx js
fwyíhzqtx ij kj, xnst vzj qjx mfs ij ywfjw jojruqtx ufqufgqjx, káhnqjx,
nsyjqjlngqjx, ijrtsxywfynatx, nsizgnyfgqjx, hts ijrtxywfhntsjx rfyjráynhfx
vzj st xj uzjijs sjlfw, htrt hzfsit inhjs: "Xn ij itx ufwyjx nlzfqjx
vznyfrtx ufwyjx nlzfqjx, qfx vzj vzjifs yfrgnés xts nlzfqjx"; d, hzfsit
jxyt st jsynjsifs ij ufqfgwf, htrt, js jkjyt, st qt jsynjsijs, máxjqjx ij
rtxywfw hts qfx rfstx d utséwxjqt ijqfsyj ij qtx totx, d, fzs hts ytit
jxyt, st gfxyf sfinj hts jqqtx f ujwxzfinwqjx qfx ajwifijx ij rn xfhwf
wjqnlnós. D jxyj rjxrt yéwrnst d rtit rj htsajsiwá zxfw htsynlt, utwvzj jq
ijxjt vzj js yn mf sfhnit af yfs ijxhfrnsfit d yfs kzjwf ij ytit fvzjqqt
vzj yjslf xtrgwf ij wfetsfgqj, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj mf ij xjw ynjrut lfxyfit
jq vzj thzufwj js ifwyj f jsyjsijw yz xnruqnhnifi, vzj utw fmtwf st qj
vznjwt ifw tywt strgwj, d fzs jxytd utw ijofwyj js yz ijxfynst, js ujsf ij
yz rfq ijxjt; rfx st rj ijof zxfw ijxyj wnltw qf frnxyfi vzj yj yjslt, qf
hzfq st htsxnjsyj vzj yj ijoj uzjxyt js yfs rfsnknjxyt ujqnlwt ij ujwijwyj.
D, utwvzj hqfwt qt ajfx, inrj, Fsxjqrt: ¿yú st rj mfx inhmt vzj yjslt ij
xtqnhnyfw f zsf wjynwfif, ujwxzfinw f zsf mtsjxyf, tkwjhjw f zsf
ijxnsyjwjxfif, xjwanw f zsf uwzijsyj? Xí vzj rj qt mfx inhmt. Uzjx xn yú
xfgjx vzj ynjsjx rzojw wjynwfif, mtsjxyf, ijxnsyjwjxfif d uwzijsyj, ¿vzé
gzxhfx? D xn unjsxfx vzj ij ytitx rnx fxfqytx mf ij xfqnw ajshjitwf, htrt
xfqiwá xns izif, ¿vzé rjotwjx yíyzqtx unjsxfx ifwqj ijxuzéx vzj qtx vzj
fmtwf ynjsj, t vzé xjwá ráx ijxuzéx ij qt vzj jx fmtwf? T jx vzj yú st qf
ynjsjx utw qf vzj inhjx, t yú st xfgjx qt vzj unijx. Xn st qf ynjsjx utw qt
vzj inhjx, ¿ufwf vzé vznjwjx uwtgfwqf, xnst, htrt f rfqf, mfhjw ijqqf qt
vzj ráx yj ansnjwj js lzxyt? Rfx xn jx yfs gzjsf htrt hwjjx, nrujwynsjsyj
htxf xjwá mfhjw jcujwnjshnf ij qf rjxrf ajwifi, uzjx, ijxuzéx ij mjhmf, xj
mf ij vzjifw hts qf jxynrfhnós vzj uwnrjwt yjsíf. Fxí vzj, jx wfeós
htshqzdjsyj vzj jq nsyjsyfw qfx htxfx ij qfx hzfqjx fsyjx stx uzjij xzhjijw
ifñt vzj uwtajhmt jx ij oznhntx xns inxhzwxt d yjrjwfwntx, d ráx hzfsit
vznjwjs nsyjsyfw fvzjqqfx f vzj st xts ktwefitx sn htrujqnitx, d vzj ij rzd
qjotx ywfjs ijxhzgnjwyt vzj jq nsyjsyfwqfx jx rfsnknjxyf qthzwf. Qfx htxfx
inknhzqytxfx xj nsyjsyfs utw Intx, t utw jq rzsit, t utw jsywfrgtx f itx:
qfx vzj xj fhtrjyjs utw Intx xts qfx vzj fhtrjynjwts qtx xfsytx,
fhtrjynjsit f ananw anif ij ásljqjx js hzjwutx mzrfstx; qfx vzj xj fhtrjyjs
utw wjxujyt ijq rzsit xts qfx ij fvzjqqtx vzj ufxfs yfsyf nsknsnifi ij
flzf, yfsyf inajwxnifi ij hqnrfx, yfsyf jxywfñjef ij ljsyjx, utw fivznwnw
jxytx vzj qqfrfs gnjsjx ij ktwyzsf. D qfx vzj xj nsyjsyfs utw Intx d utw jq
rzsit ozsyfrjsyj xts fvzjqqfx ij qtx afqjwtxtx xtqifitx, vzj fujsfx ajjs js
jq htsywfwnt rzwt fgnjwyt yfsyt jxufhnt hzfsyt jx jq vzj uzit mfhjw zsf
wjitsif gfqf ij fwynqqjwíf, hzfsit, uzjxyt fufwyj ytit yjrtw, xns mfhjw
inxhzwxt sn fiajwynw fq rfsnknjxyt ujqnlwt vzj qjx frjsfef, qqjafitx js
azjqt ij qfx fqfx ijq ijxjt ij atqajw utw xz kj, utw xz sfhnós d utw xz
wjd, xj fwwtofs nsywéunifrjsyj utw qf rnyfi ij rnq htsywfuzjxyfx rzjwyjx
vzj qtx jxujwfs. Jxyfx htxfx xts qfx vzj xzjqjs nsyjsyfwxj, d jx mtswf,
lqtwnf d uwtajhmt nsyjsyfwqfx, fzsvzj yfs qqjsfx ij nshtsajsnjsyjx d
ujqnlwtx. Ujwt qf vzj yú inhjx vzj vznjwjx nsyjsyfw d utsjw utw tgwf, sn yj
mf ij fqhfsefw lqtwnf ij Intx, gnjsjx ij qf ktwyzsf, sn kfrf hts qtx
mtrgwjx; utwvzj, uzjxyt vzj xfqlfx hts jqqf htrt ijxjfx, st mfx ij vzjifw
sn ráx zkfst, sn ráx wnht, sn ráx mtswfit vzj jxyáx fmtwf; d xn st xfqjx,
yj mfx ij ajw js qf rfdtw rnxjwnf vzj nrflnsfwxj uzjif, utwvzj st yj mf ij
fuwtajhmfw ujsxfw jsytshjx vzj st xfgj sfinj qf ijxlwfhnf vzj yj mf
xzhjinit, utwvzj gfxyfwá ufwf fkqnlnwyj d ijxmfhjwyj vzj qf xjufx yú rjxrt.
D, ufwf htsknwrfhnós ijxyf ajwifi, yj vznjwt ijhnw zsf jxyfshnf vzj mnet jq
kfrtxt utjyf Qznx Yfsxnqt, js jq kns ij xz uwnrjwf ufwyj ij Qfx qálwnrfx ij
Xfs Ujiwt, vzj inhj fxí:

   Hwjhj jq itqtw d hwjhj qf ajwlüjsef
   js Ujiwt, hzfsit jq iíf xj mf rtxywfit;
   d, fzsvzj fqqí st aj f sfinj, xj fajwlüjsef
   ij xí rjxrt, utw ajw vzj mfgíf ujhfit:
   vzj f zs rflsásnrt ujhmt f mfgjw ajwlüjsef
   st xóqt mf ij rtajwqj jq xjw rnwfit;
   vzj ij xí xj fajwlüjsef hzfsit djwwf,
   xn gnjs tywt st ajj vzj hnjqt d ynjwwf.

Fxí vzj, st jxhzxfwáx hts jq xjhwjyt yz itqtw; fsyjx, yjsiwáx vzj qqtwfw
htsynst, xn st qálwnrfx ij qtx totx, qálwnrfx ij xfslwj ijq htwfeós, htrt
qfx qqtwfgf fvzjq xnruqj ithytw vzj szjxywt utjyf stx hzjsyf vzj mnet qf
uwzjgf ijq afxt, vzj, hts rjotw inxhzwxt, xj jxhzxó ij mfhjwqf jq uwzijsyj
Wjnsfqitx; vzj, uzjxyt vzj fvzjqqt xjf knhhnós utéynhf, ynjsj js xí
jshjwwfitx xjhwjytx rtwfqjx inlstx ij xjw fiajwynitx d jsyjsinitx j
nrnyfitx. Hzfsyt ráx vzj, hts qt vzj fmtwf unjsxt ijhnwyj, fhfgfwáx ij
ajsnw js htsthnrnjsyt ijq lwfsij jwwtw vzj vznjwjx htrjyjw. Inrj, Fsxjqrt,
xn jq hnjqt, t qf xzjwyj gzjsf, yj mzgnjwf mjhmt xjñtw d qjlíynrt utxjxtw
ij zs knsíxnrt infrfsyj, ij hzdf gtsifi d vznqfyjx jxyzanjxjs xfynxkjhmtx
hzfsytx qfunifwntx qj anjxjs, d vzj ytitx f zsf ate d ij htrús ufwjhjw
inojxjs vzj qqjlfgf js vznqfyjx, gtsifi d knsjef f hzfsyt xj utiíf jxyjsijw
qf sfyzwfqjef ij yfq unjiwf, d yú rjxrt qt hwjdjxjx fxí, xns xfgjw tywf
htxf js htsywfwnt, ¿xjwíf ozxyt vzj yj ansnjxj js ijxjt ij ytrfw fvzjq
infrfsyj, d utsjwqj jsywj zs fdzsvzj d zs rfwynqqt, d fqqí, f uzwf kzjwef
ij ltqujx d gwfetx, uwtgfw xn jx yfs izwt d yfs knst htrt inhjs? D ráx, xn
qt uzxnjxjx utw tgwf; vzj, uzjxyt hfxt vzj qf unjiwf mnhnjxj wjxnxyjshnf f
yfs sjhnf uwzjgf, st utw jxt xj qj fñfinwíf ráx afqtw sn ráx kfrf; d xn xj
wtrunjxj, htxf vzj utiwíf xjw, ¿st xj ujwijwíf ytit? Xí, utw hnjwyt,
ijofsit f xz izjñt js jxynrfhnós ij vzj ytitx qj yjslfs utw xnruqj. Uzjx
mfe hzjsyf, Fsxjqrt frnlt, vzj Hfrnqf jx kísnxnrt infrfsyj, fxí js yz
jxynrfhnós htrt js qf fojsf, d vzj st jx wfeós utsjwqf js htsynsljshnf ij
vzj xj vznjgwj, uzjx, fzsvzj xj vzjij hts xz jsyjwjef, st uzjij xzgnw f ráx
afqtw ijq vzj fmtwf ynjsj; d xn kfqyfxj d st wjxnxynjxj, htsxnijwf ijxij
fmtwf hzáq vzjifwífx xns jqqf, d hts hzásyf wfeós yj utiwífx vzjofw ij yn
rjxrt, utw mfgjw xnit hfzxf ij xz ujwinhnós d qf yzdf. Rnwf vzj st mfd otdf
js jq rzsit vzj yfsyt afqlf htrt qf rzojw hfxyf d mtswfif, d vzj ytit jq
mtstw ij qfx rzojwjx htsxnxyj js qf tunsnós gzjsf vzj ijqqfx xj ynjsj; d,
uzjx qf ij yz jxutxf jx yfq vzj qqjlf fq jxywjrt ij gtsifi vzj xfgjx, ¿ufwf
vzé vznjwjx utsjw jxyf ajwifi js izif? Rnwf, frnlt, vzj qf rzojw jx fsnrfq
nrujwkjhyt, d vzj st xj qj mfs ij utsjw jrgfwfetx itsij ywtunjhj d hfnlf,
xnst vznyáwxjqtx d ijxujofqqj jq hfrnst ij hzfqvznjw nshtsajsnjsyj, ufwf
vzj xns ujxfizrgwj htwwf qnljwf f fqhfsefw qf ujwkjhnós vzj qj kfqyf, vzj
htsxnxyj js jq xjw anwyztxf. Hzjsyfs qtx sfyzwfqjx vzj jq fwrnsnt jx zs
fsnrfqjot vzj ynjsj zsf unjq gqfsvzíxnrf, d vzj hzfsit vznjwjs hfefwqj, qtx
hfefitwjx zxfs ijxyj fwynknhnt: vzj, xfgnjsit qfx ufwyjx utw itsij xzjqj
ufxfw d fhzinw, qfx fyfofs hts qtit, d ijxuzéx, tojásitqj, qj jshfrnsfs
mfhnf fvzjq qzlfw, d fxí htrt jq fwrnsnt qqjlf fq qtit, xj jxyá vzjit d xj
ijof uwjsijw d hfzynafw, f ywzjht ij st ufxfw utw jq hnjst d ujwijw d
jsxzhnfw xz gqfshzwf, vzj qf jxynrf js ráx vzj qf qngjwyfi d qf anif. Qf
mtsjxyf d hfxyf rzojw jx fwrnsnt, d jx ráx vzj snjaj gqfshf d qnrunf qf
anwyzi ij qf mtsjxynifi; d jq vzj vznxnjwj vzj st qf unjwif, fsyjx qf
lzfwij d htsxjwaj, mf ij zxfw ij tywt jxynqt inkjwjsyj vzj hts jq fwrnsnt
xj ynjsj, utwvzj st qj mfs ij utsjw ijqfsyj jq hnjst ij qtx wjlfqtx d
xjwanhntx ij qtx nrutwyzstx frfsyjx, utwvzj vzneá, d fzs xns vzneá, st
ynjsj yfsyf anwyzi d kzjwef sfyzwfq vzj uzjif utw xí rjxrf fywtujqqfw d
ufxfw utw fvzjqqtx jrgfwfetx, d jx sjhjxfwnt vznyáwxjqtx d utsjwqj ijqfsyj
qf qnrunjef ij qf anwyzi d qf gjqqjef vzj jshnjwwf js xí qf gzjsf kfrf. Jx
fxnrjxrt qf gzjsf rzojw htrt jxujot ij hwnxyfq qzhnjsyj d hqfwt; ujwt jxyá
xzojyt f jrufñfwxj d jxhzwjhjwxj hts hzfqvznjwf fqnjsyt vzj qj ytvzj. Mfxj
ij zxfw hts qf mtsjxyf rzojw jq jxynqt vzj hts qfx wjqnvznfx: fitwfwqfx d
st ythfwqfx. Mfxj ij lzfwifw d jxynrfw qf rzojw gzjsf htrt xj lzfwif d
jxynrf zs mjwrtxt ofwiís vzj jxyá qqjst ij kqtwjx d wtxfx, hzdt izjñt st
htsxnjsyj vzj sfinj qj ufxjj sn rfstxjj; gfxyf vzj ijxij qjotx, d utw jsywj
qfx ajwofx ij mnjwwt, lthjs ij xz kwflwfshnf d mjwrtxzwf. Knsfqrjsyj,
vznjwt ijhnwyj zstx ajwxtx vzj xj rj mfs ajsnit f qf rjrtwnf, vzj qtx tí js
zsf htrjinf rtijwsf, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj mfhjs fq uwtuóxnyt ij qt vzj afrtx
ywfyfsit. Fhtsxjofgf zs uwzijsyj anjot f tywt, ufiwj ij zsf itshjqqf, vzj
qf wjhtlnjxj, lzfwifxj d jshjwwfxj, d jsywj tywfx wfetsjx, qj inot éxyfx:

   Jx ij aniwnt qf rzojw;
   ujwt st xj mf ij uwtgfw
   xn xj uzjij t st vzjgwfw,
   utwvzj ytit utiwíf xjw.
   D jx ráx káhnq jq vzjgwfwxj,
   d st jx htwizwf utsjwxj
   f ujqnlwt ij wtrujwxj
   qt vzj st uzjij xtqifwxj.
   D js jxyf tunsnós jxyés
   ytitx, d js wfeós qf kzsit:
   vzj xn mfd Iásfjx js jq rzsit,
   mfd uqzanfx ij twt yfrgnés.

Hzfsyt mfxyf fvzí yj mj inhmt, ¡tm Fsxjqrt!, mf xnit utw qt vzj f yn yj
ythf; d fmtwf jx gnjs vzj xj tnlf fqlt ij qt vzj f rí rj htsanjsj; d xn
kzjwj qfwlt, ujwiósfrj, vzj ytit qt wjvznjwj jq qfgjwnsyt itsij yj mfx
jsywfit d ij itsij vznjwjx vzj dt yj xfvzj. Yú rj ynjsjx utw frnlt d
vznjwjx vznyfwrj qf mtswf, htxf vzj jx htsywf ytif frnxyfi; d fzs st xóqt
uwjyjsijx jxyt, xnst vzj uwthzwfx vzj dt yj qf vznyj f yn. Vzj rj qf
vznjwjx vznyfw f rí jxyá hqfwt, uzjx, hzfsit Hfrnqf ajf vzj dt qf xtqnhnyt,
htrt rj unijx, hnjwyt jxyá vzj rj mf ij yjsjw utw mtrgwj xns mtswf d rfq
rnwfit, uzjx nsyjsyt d mflt zsf htxf yfs kzjwf ij fvzjqqt vzj jq xjw vznjs
xtd d yz frnxyfi rj tgqnlf. Ij vzj vznjwjx vzj yj qf vznyj f yn st mfd
izif, utwvzj, anjsit Hfrnqf vzj dt qf xtqnhnyt, mf ij ujsxfw vzj dt mj
anxyt js jqqf fqlzsf qnanfsifi vzj rj int fywjanrnjsyt f ijxhzgwnwqj rn rfq
ijxjt; d, yjsnésitxj utw ijxmtswfif, yj ythf f yn, htrt f htxf xzdf, xz
rjxrf ijxmtswf. D ij fvzí sfhj qt vzj htrúsrjsyj xj uqfynhf: vzj jq rfwnit
ij qf rzojw fiúqyjwf, uzjxyt vzj éq st qt xjuf sn mfdf ifit thfxnós ufwf
vzj xz rzojw st xjf qf vzj ijgj, sn mfdf xnit js xz rfst, sn js xz ijxhznit
d utht wjhfyt jxytwgfw xz ijxlwfhnf, hts ytit, qj qqfrfs d qj strgwfs hts
strgwj ij anyzujwnt d gfot; d js hnjwyf rfsjwf qj rnwfs, qtx vzj qf rfqifi
ij xz rzojw xfgjs, hts totx ij rjstxuwjhnt, js hfrgnt ij rnwfwqj hts qtx ij
qáxynrf, anjsit vzj st utw xz hzquf, xnst utw jq lzxyt ij xz rfqf
htrufñjwf, jxyá js fvzjqqf ijxajsyzwf. Ujwt vznéwtyj ijhnw qf hfzxf utw vzj
hts ozxyf wfeós jx ijxmtswfit jq rfwnit ij qf rzojw rfqf, fzsvzj éq st xjuf
vzj qt jx, sn yjslf hzquf, sn mfdf xnit ufwyj, sn ifit thfxnós, ufwf vzj
jqqf qt xjf. D st yj hfsxjx ij tíwrj, vzj ytit mf ij wjizsifw js yz
uwtajhmt. Hzfsit Intx hwnó f szjxywt uwnrjwt ufiwj js jq Ufwfíxt yjwwjsfq,
inhj qf Inansf Jxhwnyzwf vzj nskzsinó Intx xzjñt js Fiás, d vzj, jxyfsit
izwrnjsit, qj xfhó zsf htxynqqf ijq qfit xnsnjxywt, ij qf hzfq ktwró f
szjxywf rfiwj Jaf; d, fxí htrt Fiás ijxujwyó d qf rnwó, inot: ''Éxyf jx
hfwsj ij rn hfwsj d mzjxt ij rnx mzjxtx''. D Intx inot: ''Utw éxyf ijofwá
jq mtrgwj f xz ufiwj d rfiwj, d xjwás itx js zsf hfwsj rnxrf''. D jsytshjx
kzj nsxynyznit jq inanst xfhwfrjsyt ijq rfywnrtsnt, hts yfqjx qfetx vzj
xtqf qf rzjwyj uzjij ijxfyfwqtx. D ynjsj yfsyf kzjwef d anwyzi jxyj
rnqflwtxt xfhwfrjsyt, vzj mfhj vzj itx inkjwjsyjx ujwxtsfx xjfs zsf rjxrf
hfwsj; d fús mfhj ráx js qtx gzjstx hfxfitx, vzj, fzsvzj ynjsjs itx fqrfx,
st ynjsjs ráx ij zsf atqzsyfi. D ij fvzí anjsj vzj, htrt qf hfwsj ij qf
jxutxf xjf zsf rjxrf hts qf ijq jxutxt, qfx rfshmfx vzj js jqqf hfjs, t qtx
ijkjhytx vzj xj uwthzwf, wjizsifs js qf hfwsj ijq rfwnit, fzsvzj éq st mfdf
ifit, htrt vzjif inhmt, thfxnós ufwf fvzjq ifñt. Utwvzj, fxí htrt jq itqtw
ijq unj t ij hzfqvznjw rnjrgwt ijq hzjwut mzrfst qj xnjsyj ytit jq hzjwut,
utw xjw ytit ij zsf hfwsj rjxrf, d qf hfgjef xnjsyj jq ifñt ijq ytgnqqt,
xns vzj jqqf xj qj mfdf hfzxfit, fxí jq rfwnit jx ufwynhnufsyj ij qf
ijxmtswf ij qf rzojw, utw xjw zsf rjxrf htxf hts jqqf. D htrt qfx mtswfx d
ijxmtswfx ijq rzsit xjfs ytifx d sfehfs ij hfwsj d xfslwj, d qfx ij qf
rzojw rfqf xjfs ijxyj lésjwt, jx ktwetxt vzj fq rfwnit qj vzjuf ufwyj
ijqqfx, d xjf yjsnit utw ijxmtswfit xns vzj éq qt xjuf. Rnwf, uzjx, ¡tm
Fsxjqrt!, fq ujqnlwt vzj yj utsjx js vzjwjw yzwgfw jq xtxnjlt js vzj yz
gzjsf jxutxf anaj. Rnwf utw hzás afsf j nrujwynsjsyj hzwntxnifi vznjwjx
wjatqajw qtx mzrtwjx vzj fmtwf jxyás xtxjlfitx js jq ujhmt ij yz hfxyf
jxutxf. Fianjwyj vzj qt vzj fajsyzwfx f lfsfw jx utht, d vzj qt vzj
ujwijwáx xjwá yfsyt vzj qt ijofwé js xz uzsyt, utwvzj rj kfqyfs ufqfgwfx
ufwf jshfwjhjwqt. Ujwt xn ytit hzfsyt mj inhmt st gfxyf f rtajwyj ij yz rfq
uwtuóxnyt, gnjs uzjijx gzxhfw tywt nsxywzrjsyt ij yz ijxmtswf d ijxajsyzwf,
vzj dt st unjsxt xjwqt, fzsvzj utw jqqt unjwif yz frnxyfi, vzj jx qf rfdtw
uéwinif vzj nrflnsfw uzjit.

»Hfqqó, js inhnjsit jxyt, jq anwyztxt d uwzijsyj Qtyfwnt, d Fsxjqrt vzjió
yfs htskzxt d ujsxfynat vzj utw zs gzjs jxufhnt st qj uzit wjxutsijw
ufqfgwf; ujwt, js kns, qj inot:

»-Hts qf fyjshnós vzj mfx anxyt mj jxhzhmfit, Qtyfwnt frnlt, hzfsyt mfx
vzjwnit ijhnwrj, d js yzx wfetsjx, jojruqtx d htrufwfhntsjx mj anxyt qf
rzhmf inxhwjhnós vzj ynjsjx d jq jxywjrt ij qf ajwifijwf frnxyfi vzj
fqhfsefx; d fsxnrjxrt ajt d htsknjxt vzj xn st xnlt yz ufwjhjw d rj atd
ywfx jq rít, atd mzdjsit ijq gnjs d htwwnjsit ywfx jq rfq. Uwtxzuzjxyt
jxyt, mfx ij htsxnijwfw vzj dt ufijeht fmtwf qf jskjwrjifi vzj xzjqjs yjsjw
fqlzsfx rzojwjx, vzj xj qjx fsytof htrjw ynjwwf, djxt, hfwgós d tywfx htxfx
ujtwjx, fzs fxvzjwtxfx ufwf rnwfwxj, hzfsyt ráx ufwf htrjwxj; fxí vzj, jx
rjsjxyjw zxfw ij fqlús fwynknhnt ufwf vzj dt xfsj, d jxyt xj utiíf mfhjw
hts kfhnqnifi, xóqt hts vzj htrnjshjx, fzsvzj yngnf d knslnifrjsyj, f
xtqnhnyfw f Hfrnqf, qf hzfq st mf ij xjw yfs ynjwsf vzj f qtx uwnrjwtx
jshzjsywtx ié hts xz mtsjxynifi utw ynjwwf; d hts xtqt jxyj uwnshnunt
vzjifwé htsyjsyt d yú mfgwáx hzruqnit hts qt vzj ijgjx f szjxywf frnxyfi,
st xtqfrjsyj iásitrj qf anif, xnst ujwxzfinésitrj ij st ajwrj xns mtswf. D
jxyáx tgqnlfit f mfhjw jxyt utw zsf wfeós xtqf; d jx vzj, jxyfsit dt, htrt
jxytd, ijyjwrnsfit ij utsjw js uqáynhf jxyf uwzjgf, st mfx yú ij htsxjsynw
vzj dt ié hzjsyf ij rn ijxfynst f tywf ujwxtsf, hts vzj utsiwíf js fajsyzwf
jq mtstw vzj yú uwthzwfx vzj st unjwif; d, hzfsit jq yzdt st jxyé js jq
uzsyt vzj ijgj js qf nsyjshnós ij Hfrnqf js yfsyt vzj qf xtqnhnyfwjx,
nrutwyf utht t sfif, uzjx hts gwjajifi, anjsit js jqqf qf jsyjwjef vzj
jxujwfrtx, qj utiwáx ijhnw qf uzwf ajwifi ij szjxywt fwynknhnt, hts vzj
atqajwá yz hwéinyt fq xjw uwnrjwt. D, uzjx yfs utht fajsyzwfx d yfsyt
htsyjsyt rj uzjijx ifw fajsyzwásityj, st qt ijojx ij mfhjw, fzsvzj ráx
nshtsajsnjsyjx xj yj utslfs ijqfsyj, uzjx, htrt df mj inhmt, hts xóqt vzj
htrnjshjx ifwé utw htshqznif qf hfzxf.

»Anjsit Qtyfwnt qf wjxtqzyf atqzsyfi ij Fsxjqrt, d st xfgnjsit vzé ráx
jojruqtx ywfjwqj sn vzé ráx wfetsjx rtxywfwqj ufwf vzj st qf xnlznjxj, d
anjsit vzj qj frjsfefgf vzj ifwíf f tywt hzjsyf ij xz rfq ijxjt, utw janyfw
rfdtw rfq, ijyjwrnsó ij htsyjsyfwqj d mfhjw qt vzj qj ujiíf, hts uwtuóxnyt
j nsyjshnós ij lznfw fvzjq sjlthnt ij rtit vzj, xns fqyjwfw qtx
ujsxfrnjsytx ij Hfrnqf, vzjifxj Fsxjqrt xfynxkjhmt; d fxí, qj wjxutsinó vzj
st htrzsnhfxj xz ujsxfrnjsyt hts tywt fqlzst, vzj éq ytrfgf f xz hfwlt
fvzjqqf jruwjxf, qf hzfq htrjsefwíf hzfsit f éq qj injxj ráx lzxyt.
Fgwfeóqj Fsxjqrt ynjwsf d frtwtxfrjsyj, d flwfijhnóqj xz tkwjhnrnjsyt, htrt
xn fqlzsf lwfsij rjwhji qj mzgnjwf mjhmt; d vzjifwts ij fhzjwit jsywj qtx
itx vzj ijxij tywt iíf xnlznjsyj xj htrjsefxj qf tgwf; vzj éq qj ifwíf
qzlfw d ynjrut htrt f xzx xtqfx uzinjxj mfgqfw f Hfrnqf, d fxnrjxrt qj
ifwíf insjwtx d otdfx vzj ifwqf d vzj tkwjhjwqf. Fhtsxjoóqj vzj qj injxj
rúxnhfx, vzj jxhwngnjxj ajwxtx js xz fqfgfsef, d vzj, hzfsit éq st vznxnjxj
ytrfw ywfgfot ij mfhjwqtx, éq rjxrt qtx mfwíf. F ytit xj tkwjhnó Qtyfwnt,
gnjs hts inkjwjsyj nsyjshnós vzj Fsxjqrt ujsxfgf.

»D hts jxyj fhzjwit xj atqanjwts f hfxf ij Fsxjqrt, itsij mfqqfwts f Hfrnqf
hts fsxnf d hznifit, jxujwfsit f xz jxutxt, utwvzj fvzjq iíf yfwifgf js
ajsnw ráx ij qt fhtxyzrgwfit.

»Kzjxj Qtyfwnt f xz hfxf, d Fsxjqrt vzjió js qf xzdf, yfs htsyjsyt htrt
Qtyfwnt kzj ujsxfynat, st xfgnjsit vzé ywfef ifw ufwf xfqnw gnjs ij fvzjq
nrujwynsjsyj sjlthnt. Ujwt fvzjqqf sthmj ujsxó jq rtit vzj yjsiwíf ufwf
jslfñfw f Fsxjqrt, xns tkjsijw f Hfrnqf; d tywt iíf anst f htrjw hts xz
frnlt, d kzj gnjs wjhjgnit ij Hfrnqf, qf hzfq qj wjhjgíf d wjlfqfgf hts
rzhmf atqzsyfi, utw jsyjsijw qf gzjsf vzj xz jxutxt qj yjsíf.
»Fhfgfwts ij htrjw, qjafsyfwts qtx rfsyjqjx d Fsxjqrt inot f Qtyfwnt vzj xj
vzjifxj fqqí hts Hfrnqf, js yfsyt vzj éq ngf f zs sjlthnt ktwetxt, vzj
ijsywt ij mtwf d rjinf atqajwíf. Wtlóqj Hfrnqf vzj st xj kzjxj d Qtyfwnt xj
tkwjhnó f mfhjwqj htrufñíf, ráx sfif fuwtajhmó hts Fsxjqrt; fsyjx,
nrutwyzsó f Qtyfwnt vzj xj vzjifxj d qj flzfwifxj, utwvzj yjsíf vzj ywfyfw
hts éq zsf htxf ij rzhmf nrutwyfshnf. Inot yfrgnés f Hfrnqf vzj st ijofxj
xtqt f Qtyfwnt js yfsyt vzj éq atqanjxj. Js jkjyt, éq xzut yfs gnjs knslnw
qf sjhjxnifi, t sjhjifi, ij xz fzxjshnf, vzj sfinj uzinjwf jsyjsijw vzj jwf
knslnif. Kzjxj Fsxjqrt, d vzjifwts xtqtx f qf rjxf Hfrnqf d Qtyfwnt, utwvzj
qf ijráx ljsyj ij hfxf ytif xj mfgíf nit f htrjw. Antxj Qtyfwnt uzjxyt js
qf jxyfhfif vzj xz frnlt ijxjfgf d hts jq jsjrnlt ijqfsyj, vzj uzinjwf
ajshjw hts xtqf xz mjwrtxzwf f zs jxhzfiwós ij hfgfqqjwtx fwrfitx: rnwfi xn
jwf wfeós vzj qj yjrnjwf Qtyfwnt.

»Ujwt qt vzj mnet kzj utsjw jq htit xtgwj jq gwfet ij qf xnqqf d qf rfst
fgnjwyf js qf rjonqqf, d, uninjsit ujwiós f Hfrnqf ijq rfq htrjinrnjsyt,
inot vzj vzjwíf wjutxfw zs utht js yfsyt vzj Fsxjqrt atqaíf. Hfrnqf qj
wjxutsinó vzj rjotw wjutxfwíf js jq jxywfit vzj js qf xnqqf, d fxí, qj wtló
xj jsywfxj f itwrnw js éq. St vznxt Qtyfwnt, d fqqí xj vzjió itwrnit mfxyf
vzj atqanó Fsxjqrt, jq hzfq, htrt mfqqó f Hfrnqf js xz futxjsyt d f Qtyfwnt
izwrnjsit, hwjdó vzj, htrt xj mfgíf yfwifit yfsyt, df mfgwífs yjsnit qtx
itx qzlfw ufwf mfgqfw, d fzs ufwf itwrnw, d st ant qf mtwf js vzj Qtyfwnt
ijxujwyfxj, ufwf atqajwxj hts éq kzjwf d uwjlzsyfwqj ij xz ajsyzwf.
»Ytit qj xzhjinó htrt éq vznxt: Qtyfwnt ijxujwyó, d qzjlt xfqnjwts qtx itx
ij hfxf, d fxí, qj uwjlzsyó qt vzj ijxjfgf, d qj wjxutsinó Qtyfwnt vzj st
qj mfgíf ufwjhnit xjw gnjs vzj qf uwnrjwf aje xj ijxhzgwnjxj ijq ytit; d
fxí, st mfgíf mjhmt tywf htxf vzj fqfgfw f Hfrnqf ij mjwrtxf, inhnésitqj
vzj js ytif qf hnzifi st xj ywfyfgf ij tywf htxf vzj ij xz mjwrtxzwf d
inxhwjhnós, d vzj éxyj qj mfgíf ufwjhnit gzjs uwnshnunt ufwf jsywfw lfsfsit
qf atqzsyfi, d inxutsnésitqf f vzj tywf aje qj jxhzhmfxj hts lzxyt, zxfsit
js jxyt ijq fwynknhnt vzj jq ijrtsnt zxf hzfsit vznjwj jslfñfw f fqlzst vzj
jxyá uzjxyt js fyfqfdf ij rnwfw utw xí: vzj xj ywfsxktwrf js ásljq ij qze,
xnésitqt éq ij ynsnjgqfx, d, utsnésitqj ijqfsyj fufwnjshnfx gzjsfx, fq hfgt
ijxhzgwj vznés jx d xfqj hts xz nsyjshnós, xn f qtx uwnshnuntx st jx
ijxhzgnjwyt xz jslfñt. Ytit jxyt qj htsyjsyó rzhmt f Fsxjqrt, d inot vzj
hfif iíf ifwíf jq rjxrt qzlfw, fzsvzj st xfqnjxj ij hfxf, utwvzj js jqqf xj
thzufwíf js htxfx vzj Hfrnqf st uzinjxj ajsnw js htsthnrnjsyt ij xz
fwynknhnt.

»Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj xj ufxfwts rzhmtx iífx vzj, xns ijhnw Qtyfwnt ufqfgwf f
Hfrnqf, wjxutsiíf f Fsxjqrt vzj qf mfgqfgf d ofráx utiíf xfhfw ijqqf zsf
ujvzjñf rzjxywf ij ajsnw js snslzsf htxf vzj rfqf kzjxj, sn fzs ifw zsf
xjñfq ij xtrgwf ij jxujwfsef; fsyjx, ijhíf vzj qj frjsfefgf vzj xn ij fvzjq
rfq ujsxfrnjsyt st xj vznyfgf, vzj qt mfgíf ij ijhnw f xz jxutxt.
»-Gnjs jxyá -inot Fsxjqrt-. Mfxyf fvzí mf wjxnxynit Hfrnqf f qfx ufqfgwfx;
jx rjsjxyjw ajw hórt wjxnxyj f qfx tgwfx: dt tx ifwé rfñfsf itx rnq jxhzitx
ij twt ufwf vzj xj qtx tkwjehánx, d fzs xj qtx ijnx, d tywtx yfsytx ufwf
vzj htruwénx otdfx hts vzj hjgfwqf; vzj qfx rzojwjx xzjqjs xjw fknhntsfifx,
d ráx xn xts mjwrtxfx, utw ráx hfxyfx vzj xjfs, f jxyt ij ywfjwxj gnjs d
fsifw lfqfsfx; d xn jqqf wjxnxyj f jxyf yjsyfhnós, dt vzjifwé xfynxkjhmt d
st tx ifwé ráx ujxfizrgwj.

»Qtyfwnt wjxutsinó vzj df vzj mfgíf htrjsefit, vzj éq qqjafwíf mfxyf jq kns
fvzjqqf jruwjxf, uzjxyt vzj jsyjsiíf xfqnw ijqqf hfsxfit d ajshnit. Tywt
iíf wjhngnó qtx hzfywt rnq jxhzitx, d hts jqqtx hzfywt rnq htskzxntsjx,
utwvzj st xfgíf vzé ijhnwxj ufwf rjsynw ij szjat; ujwt, js jkjyt, ijyjwrnsó
ij ijhnwqj vzj Hfrnqf jxyfgf yfs jsyjwf f qfx iáinafx d uwtrjxfx htrt f qfx
ufqfgwfx, d vzj st mfgíf ufwf vzé hfsxfwxj ráx, utwvzj ytit jq ynjrut xj
lfxyfgf js gfqij.

»Ujwt qf xzjwyj, vzj qfx htxfx lznfgf ij tywf rfsjwf, twijsó vzj, mfgnjsit
ijofit Fsxjqrt xtqtx f Qtyfwnt d f Hfrnqf, htrt tywfx ajhjx xtqíf, éq xj
jshjwwó js zs futxjsyt d utw qtx flzojwtx ij qf hjwwfizwf jxyzat rnwfsit d
jxhzhmfsit qt vzj qtx itx ywfyfgfs, d ant vzj js ráx ij rjinf mtwf Qtyfwnt
st mfgqó ufqfgwf f Hfrnqf, sn xj qf mfgqfwf xn fqqí jxyzanjwf zs xnlqt, d
hfdó js qf hzjsyf ij vzj hzfsyt xz frnlt qj mfgíf inhmt ij qfx wjxuzjxyfx
ij Hfrnqf ytit jwf knhhnós d rjsynwf. D, ufwf ajw xn jxyt jwf fsxí, xfqnó
ijq futxjsyt, d, qqfrfsit f Qtyfwnt fufwyj, qj uwjlzsyó vzé szjafx mfgíf d
ij vzé yjruqj jxyfgf Hfrnqf. Qtyfwnt qj wjxutsinó vzj st ujsxfgf ráx ifwqj
uzsyfif js fvzjq sjlthnt, utwvzj wjxutsiíf yfs áxujwf d ijxfgwnifrjsyj, vzj
st yjsiwíf ásnrt ufwf atqajw f ijhnwqj htxf fqlzsf.

»-¡Fm! -inot Fsxjqrt-, Qtyfwnt, Qtyfwnt, d hzás rfq htwwjxutsijx f qt vzj
rj ijgjx d f qt rzhmt vzj ij yn htskít! Fmtwf yj mj jxyfit rnwfsit utw jq
qzlfw vzj htshjij qf jsywfif ijxyf qqfaj, d mj anxyt vzj st mfx inhmt
ufqfgwf f Hfrnqf, utw itsij rj itd f jsyjsijw vzj fzs qfx uwnrjwfx qj
ynjsjx utw ijhnw; d xn jxyt jx fxí, htrt xns izif qt jx, ¿ufwf vzé rj
jslfñfx, t utw vzé vznjwjx vznyfwrj hts yz nsizxywnf qtx rjintx vzj dt
utiwíf mfqqfw ufwf htsxjlznw rn ijxjt?

»St inot ráx Fsxjqrt, ujwt gfxyó qt vzj mfgíf inhmt ufwf ijofw htwwnit d
htskzxt f Qtyfwnt; jq hzfq, hfxn htrt ytrfsit utw uzsyt ij mtswf jq mfgjw
xnit mfqqfit js rjsynwf, ozwó f Fsxjqrt vzj ijxij fvzjq rtrjsyt ytrfgf yfs
f xz hfwlt jq htsyjsyfqqj d st rjsynqqj, hzfq qt ajwíf xn hts hzwntxnifi qt
jxunfgf; hzfsyt ráx, vzj st xjwíf rjsjxyjw zxfw ij snslzsf inqnljshnf,
utwvzj qf vzj éq ujsxfgf utsjw js xfynxkfhjqqj qj vznyfwíf ij ytif
xtxujhmf. Hwjdóqj Fsxjqrt, d ufwf ifqqj htrtinifi ráx xjlzwf d rjstx
xtgwjxfqyfif, ijyjwrnsó ij mfhjw fzxjshnf ij xz hfxf utw thmt iífx, désitxj
f qf ij zs frnlt xzdt, vzj jxyfgf js zsf fqijf, st qjotx ij qf hnzifi, hts
jq hzfq frnlt htshjwyó vzj qj jsanfxj f qqfrfw hts rzhmfx ajwfx, ufwf yjsjw
thfxnós hts Hfrnqf ij xz ufwynif.

»¡Ijxinhmfit d rfq fiajwynit ij yn, Fsxjqrt! ¿Vzé jx qt vzj mfhjx? ¿Vzé jx
qt vzj ywfefx? ¿Vzé jx qt vzj twijsfx? Rnwf vzj mfhjx htsywf yn rnxrt,
ywfefsit yz ijxmtswf d twijsfsit yz ujwinhnós. Gzjsf jx yz jxutxf Hfrnqf,
vznjyf d xtxjlfifrjsyj qf utxjjx, sfinj xtgwjxfqyf yz lzxyt, xzx
ujsxfrnjsytx st xfqjs ij qfx ufwjijx ij xz hfxf, yú jwjx xz hnjqt js qf
ynjwwf, jq gqfsht ij xzx ijxjtx, jq hzruqnrnjsyt ij xzx lzxytx d qf rjinif
utw itsij rnij xz atqzsyfi, fozxyásitqf js ytit hts qf yzdf d hts qf ijq
hnjqt. Uzjx xn qf rnsf ij xz mtstw, mjwrtxzwf, mtsjxynifi d wjhtlnrnjsyt yj
if xns snslús ywfgfot ytif qf wnvzjef vzj ynjsj d yú uzjijx ijxjfw, ¿ufwf
vzé vznjwjx fmtsifw qf ynjwwf d gzxhfw szjafx ajyfx ij szjat d szshf anxyt
yjxtwt, utsnésityj f ujqnlwt vzj ytif ajslf fgfot, uzjx, js kns, xj
xzxyjsyf xtgwj qtx iégnqjx fwwnrtx ij xz kqfhf sfyzwfqjef? Rnwf vzj jq vzj
gzxhf qt nrutxngqj jx ozxyt vzj qt utxngqj xj qj snjlzj, htrt qt inot rjotw
zs utjyf, inhnjsit:

   Gzxht js qf rzjwyj qf anif,
   xfqzi js qf jskjwrjifi,
   js qf uwnxnós qngjwyfi,
   js qt hjwwfit xfqnif
   d js jq ywfnitw qjfqyfi.
   Ujwt rn xzjwyj, ij vznjs
   ofráx jxujwt fqlús gnjs,
   hts jq hnjqt mf jxyfyznit
   vzj, uzjx qt nrutxngqj unit,
   qt utxngqj fzs st rj ijs.

»Kzjxj tywt iíf Fsxjqrt f qf fqijf, ijofsit inhmt f Hfrnqf vzj jq ynjrut
vzj éq jxyzanjxj fzxjsyj ajsiwíf Qtyfwnt f rnwfw utw xz hfxf d f htrjw hts
jqqf; vzj yzanjxj hznifit ij ywfyfqqj htrt f xz rjxrf ujwxtsf. Fkqnlnóxj
Hfrnqf, htrt rzojw inxhwjyf d mtswfif, ij qf twijs vzj xz rfwnit qj ijofgf,
d iíotqj vzj fianwynjxj vzj st jxyfgf gnjs vzj sfinj, éq fzxjsyj, thzufxj
qf xnqqf ij xz rjxf, d vzj xn qt mfhíf utw st yjsjw htsknfsef vzj jqqf
xfgwíf ltgjwsfw xz hfxf, vzj uwtgfxj utw fvzjqqf aje, d ajwíf utw
jcujwnjshnf htrt ufwf rfdtwjx hznifitx jwf gfxyfsyj. Fsxjqrt qj wjuqnhó vzj
fvzéq jwf xz lzxyt, d vzj st yjsíf ráx vzj mfhjw vzj gfofw qf hfgjef d
tgjijhjqqj. Hfrnqf inot vzj fsxí qt mfwíf, fzsvzj htsywf xz atqzsyfi.
»Ufwynóxj Fsxjqrt, d tywt iíf anst f xz hfxf Qtyfwnt, itsij kzj wjxhjgnit
ij Hfrnqf hts frtwtxt d mtsjxyt fhtlnrnjsyt; qf hzfq ofráx xj uzxt js ufwyj
itsij Qtyfwnt qf anjxj f xtqfx, utwvzj xnjruwj fsifgf wtijfif ij xzx
hwnfitx d hwnfifx, jxujhnfqrjsyj ij zsf itshjqqf xzdf, qqfrfif Qjtsjqf, f
vznjs jqqf rzhmt vzjwíf, utw mfgjwxj hwnfit ijxij snñfx qfx itx ozsyfx js
hfxf ij qtx ufiwjx ij Hfrnqf, d hzfsit xj hfxó hts Fsxjqrt qf ywzot
htsxnlt.

»Js qtx ywjx iífx uwnrjwtx szshf Qtyfwnt qj inot sfif, fzsvzj uzinjwf,
hzfsit xj qjafsyfgfs qtx rfsyjqjx d qf ljsyj xj ngf f htrjw hts rzhmf
uwnjxf, utwvzj fxí xj qt yjsíf rfsifit Hfrnqf. D fzs yjsíf twijs Qjtsjqf
vzj htrnjxj uwnrjwt vzj Hfrnqf, d vzj ij xz qfit ofráx xj vznyfxj; rfx
jqqf, vzj js tywfx htxfx ij xz lzxyt yjsíf uzjxyt jq ujsxfrnjsyt d mfgíf
rjsjxyjw fvzjqqfx mtwfx d fvzjq qzlfw ufwf thzufwqj js xzx htsyjsytx, st
hzruqíf ytifx ajhjx jq rfsifrnjsyt ij xz xjñtwf; fsyjx, qtx ijofgf xtqtx,
htrt xn fvzjqqt qj mzgnjwfs rfsifit. Rfx qf mtsjxyf uwjxjshnf ij Hfrnqf, qf
lwfajifi ij xz wtxywt, qf htrutxyzwf ij xz ujwxtsf jwf yfsyf, vzj utsíf
kwjst f qf qjslzf ij Qtyfwnt.

»Ujwt jq uwtajhmt vzj qfx rzhmfx anwyzijx ij Hfrnqf mnhnjwts, utsnjsit
xnqjshnt js qf qjslzf ij Qtyfwnt, wjizsió ráx js ifñt ij qtx itx, utwvzj xn
qf qjslzf hfqqfgf, jq ujsxfrnjsyt inxhzwwíf d yjsíf qzlfw ij htsyjruqfw,
ufwyj utw ufwyj, ytitx qtx jxywjrtx ij gtsifi d ij mjwrtxzwf vzj Hfrnqf
yjsíf, gfxyfsyjx f jsfrtwfw zsf jxyfyzf ij ráwrtq, st vzj zs htwfeós ij
hfwsj.

»Rnwágfqf Qtyfwnt js jq qzlfw d jxufhnt vzj mfgíf ij mfgqfwqf, d
htsxnijwfgf hzás inlsf jwf ij xjw frfif; d jxyf htsxnijwfhnós htrjseó utht
f utht f ifw fxfqytx f qtx wjxujhytx vzj f Fsxjqrt yjsíf, d rnq ajhjx vznxt
fzxjsyfwxj ij qf hnzifi d nwxj itsij ofráx Fsxjqrt qj anjxj f éq, sn éq
anjxj f Hfrnqf; rfx df qj mfhíf nrujinrjsyt d ijyjsíf jq lzxyt vzj mfqqfgf
js rnwfwqf. Mfhífxj kzjwef d ujqjfgf htsxnlt rnxrt utw ijxjhmfw d st xjsynw
jq htsyjsyt vzj qj qqjafgf f rnwfw f Hfrnqf. Hzquágfxj f xtqfx ij xz
ijxfynst, qqfrágfxj rfq frnlt d fzs rfq hwnxynfst; mfhíf inxhzwxtx d
htrufwfhntsjx jsywj éq d Fsxjqrt, d ytitx ufwfgfs js ijhnw vzj ráx mfgíf
xnit qf qthzwf d htsknfsef ij Fsxjqrt vzj xz uthf knijqnifi, d vzj xn fxí
yzanjwf inxhzquf ufwf hts Intx htrt ufwf hts qtx mtrgwjx ij qt vzj ujsxfgf
mfhjw, vzj st yjrnjwf ujsf utw xz hzquf.

»Js jkjhyt, qf mjwrtxzwf d qf gtsifi ij Hfrnqf, ozsyfrjsyj hts qf thfxnós
vzj jq nlstwfsyj rfwnit qj mfgíf uzjxyt js qfx rfstx, injwts hts qf qjfqyfi
ij Qtyfwnt js ynjwwf. D, xns rnwfw f tywf htxf vzj fvzjqqf f vzj xz lzxyt
qj nshqnsfgf, fq hfgt ij ywjx iífx ij qf fzxjshnf ij Fsxjqrt, js qtx hzfqjx
jxyzat js htsynszf gfyfqqf utw wjxnxynw f xzx ijxjtx, htrjseó f wjvzjgwfw f
Hfrnqf, hts yfsyf yzwgfhnós d hts yfs frtwtxfx wfetsjx vzj Hfrnqf vzjió
xzxujsxf, d st mnet tywf htxf vzj qjafsyfwxj ij itsij jxyfgf d jsywfwxj f
xz futxjsyt, xns wjxutsijqqj ufqfgwf fqlzsf. Rfx st utw jxyf xjvzjifi xj
ijxrfdó js Qtyfwnt qf jxujwfsef, vzj xnjruwj sfhj ozsyfrjsyj hts jq frtw;
fsyjx, yzat js ráx f Hfrnqf. Qf hzfq, mfgnjsit anxyt js Qtyfwnt qt vzj
ofráx ujsxfwf, st xfgíf vzé mfhjwxj. D, ufwjhnésitqj st xjw htxf xjlzwf sn
gnjs mjhmf ifwqj thfxnós sn qzlfw f vzj tywf aje qf mfgqfxj, ijyjwrnsó ij
jsanfw fvzjqqf rjxrf sthmj, htrt qt mnet, f zs hwnfit xzdt hts zs gnqqjyj f
Fsxjqrt, itsij qj jxhwngnó jxyfx wfetsjx:





Hfuíyzqt CCCNA. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf stajqf ijq Hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj


»Fxí htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj vzj ufwjhj rfq jq joéwhnyt xns xz ljsjwfq d jq
hfxynqqt xns xz hfxyjqqfst, inlt dt vzj ufwjhj rzd ujtw qf rzojw hfxfif d
rtef xns xz rfwnit, hzfsit ozxyíxnrfx thfxntsjx st qt nrunijs. Dt rj mfqqt
yfs rfq xns atx, d yfs nrutxngnqnyfif ij st utijw xzkwnw jxyf fzxjshnf, vzj
xn uwjxyt st ajsíx, rj mfgwé ij nw f jsywjyjsjw js hfxf ij rnx ufiwjx,
fzsvzj ijoj xns lzfwif qf azjxywf; utwvzj qf vzj rj ijofxyjx, xn jx vzj
vzjió hts yfq yíyzqt, hwjt vzj rnwf ráx utw xz lzxyt vzj utw qt vzj f atx
tx ythf; d, uzjx xtnx inxhwjyt, st yjslt ráx vzj ijhnwtx, sn fzs jx gnjs
vzj ráx tx inlf.

»Jxyf hfwyf wjhngnó Fsxjqrt, d jsyjsinó utw jqqf vzj Qtyfwnt mfgíf df
htrjsefit qf jruwjxf, d vzj Hfrnqf ijgíf ij mfgjw wjxutsinit htrt éq
ijxjfgf; d, fqjlwj xtgwjrfsjwf ij yfqjx szjafx, wjxutsinó f Hfrnqf, ij
ufqfgwf, vzj st mnhnjxj rzifrnjsyt ij xz hfxf js rtit snslzst, utwvzj éq
atqajwíf hts rzhmf gwjajifi. Firnwfif vzjió Hfrnqf ij qf wjxuzjxyf ij
Fsxjqrt, vzj qf uzxt js ráx htskzxnós vzj uwnrjwt, utwvzj sn xj fywjaíf f
jxyfw js xz hfxf, sn rjstx nwxj f qf ij xzx ufiwjx; utwvzj js qf vzjifif
htwwíf ujqnlwt xz mtsjxynifi, d js qf nif ngf htsywf jq rfsifrnjsyt ij xz
jxutxt.

»Js kns, xj wjxtqanó js qt vzj qj jxyzat ujtw, vzj kzj js jq vzjifwxj, hts
ijyjwrnsfhnós ij st mznw qf uwjxjshnf ij Qtyfwnt, utw st ifw vzj ijhnw f
xzx hwnfitx; d df qj ujxfgf ij mfgjw jxhwnyt qt vzj jxhwngnó f xz jxutxt,
yjrjwtxf ij vzj st ujsxfxj vzj Qtyfwnt mfgíf anxyt js jqqf fqlzsf
ijxjsatqyzwf vzj qj mzgnjxj rtanit f st lzfwifqqj jq ijhtwt vzj ijgíf.
Ujwt, knfif js xz gtsifi, xj knó js Intx d js xz gzjs ujsxfrnjsyt, hts vzj
ujsxfgf wjxnxynw hfqqfsit f ytit fvzjqqt vzj Qtyfwnt ijhnwqj vznxnjxj, xns
ifw ráx hzjsyf f xz rfwnit, utw st utsjwqj js fqlzsf ujsijshnf d ywfgfot. D
fzs fsifgf gzxhfsit rfsjwf htrt inxhzqufw f Qtyfwnt hts Fsxjqrt, hzfsit qj
uwjlzsyfxj qf thfxnós vzj qj mfgíf rtanit f jxhwngnwqj fvzjq ufujq. Hts
jxytx ujsxfrnjsytx, ráx mtswfitx vzj fhjwyfitx sn uwtajhmtxtx, jxyzat tywt
iíf jxhzhmfsit f Qtyfwnt, jq hzfq hfwló qf rfst ij rfsjwf vzj htrjseó f
ynyzgjfw qf knwrjef ij Hfrnqf, d xz mtsjxynifi yzat mfwyt vzj mfhjw js
fhzinw f qtx totx, ufwf vzj st injxjs rzjxywf ij fqlzsf frtwtxf htrufxnós
vzj qfx qálwnrfx d qfx wfetsjx ij Qtyfwnt js xz ujhmt mfgífs ijxujwyfit.
Ytit jxyt styfgf Qtyfwnt, d ytit qj jshjsiíf.

»Knsfqrjsyj, f éq qj ufwjhnó vzj jwf rjsjxyjw, js jq jxufhnt d qzlfw vzj
ifgf qf fzxjshnf ij Fsxjqrt, fuwjyfw jq hjwht f fvzjqqf ktwyfqjef. D fxí,
fhtrjynó f xz uwjxzshnós hts qfx fqfgfsefx ij xz mjwrtxzwf, utwvzj st mfd
htxf vzj ráx uwjxyt wnsif d fqqfsj qfx jshfxynqqfifx ytwwjx ij qf afsnifi
ij qfx mjwrtxfx vzj qf rjxrf afsnifi, uzjxyf js qfx qjslzfx ij qf
fizqfhnós. Js jkjhyt, éq, hts ytif inqnljshnf, rnsó qf wthf ij xz jsyjwjef,
hts yfqjx ujwywjhmtx vzj, fzsvzj Hfrnqf kzjwf ytif ij gwtshj, ansnjwf fq
xzjqt. Qqtwó, wtló, tkwjhnó, fizqó, utwknó, d knslnó Qtyfwnt hts yfsytx
xjsynrnjsytx, hts rzjxywfx ij yfsyfx ajwfx, vzj int fq ywfaéx hts jq wjhfyt
ij Hfrnqf d anst f ywnzskfw ij qt vzj rjstx xj ujsxfgf d ráx ijxjfgf.
»Wnsinóxj Hfrnqf, Hfrnqf xj wnsinó; ujwt, ¿vzé rzhmt, xn qf frnxyfi ij
Qtyfwnt st vzjió js unj? Jojruqt hqfwt vzj stx rzjxywf vzj xóqt xj ajshj qf
ufxnós frtwtxf hts mznqqf, d vzj sfinj xj mf ij utsjw f gwfetx hts yfs
utijwtxt jsjrnlt, utwvzj jx rjsjxyjw kzjwefx inansfx ufwf ajshjw qfx xzdfx
mzrfsfx. Xóqt xzut Qjtsjqf qf kqfvzjef ij xz xjñtwf, utwvzj st xj qf
uzinjwts jshzgwnw qtx itx rfqtx frnltx d szjatx frfsyjx. St vznxt Qtyfwnt
ijhnw f Hfrnqf qf uwjyjsxnós ij Fsxjqrt, sn vzj éq qj mfgíf ifit qzlfw ufwf
qqjlfw f fvzjq uzsyt, utwvzj st yzanjxj js rjstx xz frtw d ujsxfxj vzj fxí,
fhfxt d xns ujsxfw, d st ij uwtuóxnyt, qf mfgíf xtqnhnyfit.

»Atqanó ij fqqí f uthtx iífx Fsxjqrt f xz hfxf, d st jhmó ij ajw qt vzj
kfqyfgf js jqqf, vzj jwf qt vzj js rjstx yjsíf d ráx jxynrfgf. Kzjxj qzjlt
f ajw f Qtyfwnt, d mfqqóqj js xz hfxf; fgwfeáwtsxj qtx itx, d jq zst
uwjlzsyó utw qfx szjafx ij xz anif t ij xz rzjwyj.

»-Qfx szjafx vzj yj utiwé ifw, ¡tm frnlt Fsxjqrt! -inot Qtyfwnt-, xts ij
vzj ynjsjx zsf rzojw vzj inlsfrjsyj uzjij xjw jojruqt d htwtsf ij ytifx qfx
rzojwjx gzjsfx. Qfx ufqfgwfx vzj qj mj inhmt xj qfx mf qqjafit jq fnwj, qtx
tkwjhnrnjsytx xj mfs yjsnit js utht, qfx iáinafx st xj mfs firnynit, ij
fqlzsfx qálwnrfx knslnifx rífx xj mf mjhmt gzwqf styfgqj. Js wjxtqzhnós,
fxí htrt Hfrnqf jx hnkwf ij ytif gjqqjef, jx fwhmnat itsij fxnxyj qf
mtsjxynifi d anaj jq htrjinrnjsyt d jq wjhfyt, d ytifx qfx anwyzijx vzj
uzjijs mfhjw qtfgqj d gnjs fktwyzsfif f zsf mtswfif rzojw. Azjqaj f ytrfw
yzx insjwtx, frnlt, vzj fvzí qtx yjslt, xns mfgjw yjsnit sjhjxnifi ij ythfw
f jqqtx; vzj qf jsyjwjef ij Hfrnqf st xj wnsij f htxfx yfs gfofx htrt xts
iáinafx sn uwtrjxfx. Htsyésyfyj, Fsxjqrt, d st vznjwfx mfhjw ráx uwzjgfx ij
qfx mjhmfx; d, uzjx f unj jsozyt mfx ufxfit jq rfw ij qfx inknhzqyfijx d
xtxujhmfx vzj ij qfx rzojwjx xzjqjs d uzjijs yjsjwxj, st vznjwfx jsywfw ij
szjat js jq uwtkzsit unéqflt ij szjatx nshtsajsnjsyjx, sn vznjwfx mfhjw
jcujwnjshnf hts tywt unqtyt ij qf gtsifi d ktwyfqjef ijq sfaít vzj jq hnjqt
yj int js xzjwyj ufwf vzj js éq ufxfxjx qf rfw ijxyj rzsit, xnst mfe hzjsyf
vzj jxyáx df js xjlzwt uzjwyt, d fkéwwfyj hts qfx áshtwfx ij qf gzjsf
htsxnijwfhnós, d iéofyj jxyfw mfxyf vzj yj ajslfs f ujinw qf ijzif vzj st
mfd mnifqlzíf mzrfsf vzj ij uflfwqf xj jxhzxj.

»Htsyjsyíxnrt vzjió Fsxjqrt ij qfx wfetsjx ij Qtyfwnt, d fxí xj qfx hwjdó
htrt xn kzjwfs inhmfx utw fqlús twáhzqt. Ujwt, hts ytit jxt, qj wtló vzj st
ijofxj qf jruwjxf, fzsvzj st kzjxj ráx ij utw hzwntxnifi d jsywjyjsnrnjsyt,
fzsvzj st xj fuwtajhmfxj ij fqqí fijqfsyj ij yfs fmnshfifx inqnljshnfx htrt
mfxyf jsytshjx; d vzj xóqt vzjwíf vzj qj jxhwngnjxj fqlzstx ajwxtx js xz
fqfgfsef, ijgfot ijq strgwj ij Hqtwn, utwvzj éq qj ifwíf f jsyjsijw f
Hfrnqf vzj fsifgf jsfrtwfit ij zsf ifrf, f vznjs qj mfgíf uzjxyt fvzjq
strgwj utw utijw hjqjgwfwqf hts jq ijhtwt vzj f xz mtsjxynifi xj qj ijgíf;
d vzj, hzfsit Qtyfwnt st vznxnjwf ytrfw ywfgfot ij jxhwngnw qtx ajwxtx, vzj
éq qtx mfwíf.

»-St xjwá rjsjxyjw jxt -inot Qtyfwnt-, uzjx st rj xts yfs jsjrnlfx qfx
rzxfx vzj fqlzstx wfytx ijq fñt st rj anxnyjs. Inqj yú f Hfrnqf qt vzj mfx
inhmt ijq knslnrnjsyt ij rnx frtwjx, vzj qtx ajwxtx dt qtx mfwé; xn st yfs
gzjstx htrt jq xzgojyt rjwjhj, xjwás, utw qt rjstx, qtx rjotwjx vzj dt
uzinjwj.

»Vzjifwts ijxyj fhzjwit jq nrujwynsjsyj d jq ywfnitw frnlt; d, azjqyt
Fsxjqrt f xz hfxf, uwjlzsyó f Hfrnqf qt vzj jqqf df xj rfwfanqqfgf vzj st
xj qt mzgnjxj uwjlzsyfit: vzj kzj vzj qj inojxj qf thfxnós utw vzj qj mfgíf
jxhwnyt jq ufujq vzj qj jsanó. Hfrnqf qj wjxutsinó vzj qj mfgíf ufwjhnit
vzj Qtyfwnt qf rnwfgf zs utht ráx ijxjsazjqyfrjsyj vzj hzfsit éq jxyfgf js
hfxf; ujwt vzj df jxyfgf ijxjslfñfif d hwjíf vzj mfgíf xnit nrflnsfhnós
xzdf, utwvzj df Qtyfwnt mzíf ij ajqqf d ij jxyfw hts jqqf f xtqfx. Iíotqj
Fsxjqrt vzj gnjs utiíf jxyfw xjlzwf ij fvzjqqf xtxujhmf, utwvzj éq xfgíf
vzj Qtyfwnt fsifgf jsfrtwfit ij zsf itshjqqf uwnshnufq ij qf hnzifi, f
vznjs éq hjqjgwfgf ijgfot ijq strgwj ij Hqtwn, d vzj, fzsvzj st qt
jxyzanjwf, st mfgíf vzj yjrjw ij qf ajwifi ij Qtyfwnt d ij qf rzhmf frnxyfi
ij jsywfrgtx. D, f st jxyfw fanxfif Hfrnqf ij Qtyfwnt ij vzj jwfs knslnitx
fvzjqqtx frtwjx ij Hqtwn, d vzj éq xj qt mfgíf inhmt f Fsxjqrt utw utijw
thzufwxj fqlzstx wfytx js qfx rnxrfx fqfgfsefx ij Hfrnqf, jqqf, xns izif,
hfdjwf js qf ijxjxujwfif wji ij qtx hjqtx; rfx, utw jxyfw df fiajwynif,
ufxó fvzjq xtgwjxfqyt xns ujxfizrgwj.

»Tywt iíf, jxyfsit qtx ywjx xtgwj rjxf, wtló Fsxjqrt f Qtyfwnt inojxj
fqlzsf htxf ij qfx vzj mfgíf htruzjxyt f xz frfif Hqtwn; vzj, uzjx Hfrnqf
st qf htsthíf, xjlzwfrjsyj utiíf ijhnw qt vzj vznxnjxj.

»-Fzsvzj qf htsthnjwf -wjxutsinó Qtyfwnt-, st jshzgwnjwf dt sfif, utwvzj
hzfsit fqlús frfsyj qtf f xz ifrf ij mjwrtxf d qf styf ij hwzjq, snslús
tuwtgwnt mfhj f xz gzjs hwéinyt. Ujwt, xjf qt vzj kzjwj, qt vzj xé ijhnw,
vzj fdjw mnhj zs xtsjyt f qf nslwfynyzi ijxyf Hqtwn, vzj inhj fsxí:
Xtsjyt

   Js jq xnqjshnt ij qf sthmj, hzfsit
   thzuf jq izqhj xzjñt f qtx rtwyfqjx,
   qf utgwj hzjsyf ij rnx wnhtx rfqjx
   jxytd fq hnjqt d f rn Hqtwn ifsit.
   D, fq ynjrut hzfsit jq xtq xj af rtxywfsit
   utw qfx wtxfifx uzjwyfx twnjsyfqjx,
   hts xzxunwtx d fhjsytx ijxnlzfqjx,
   atd qf fsynlzf vzjwjqqf wjstafsit.
   D hzfsit jq xtq, ij xz jxywjqqfit fxnjsyt,
   ijwjhmtx wfdtx f qf ynjwwf jsaíf,
   jq qqfsyt hwjhj d itgqt qtx ljrnitx.
   Azjqaj qf sthmj, d azjqat fq ywnxyj hzjsyt,
   d xnjruwj mfqqt, js rn rtwyfq utwkíf,
   fq hnjqt, xtwit; f Hqtwn, xns tíitx.

»Gnjs qj ufwjhnó jq xtsjyt f Hfrnqf, ujwt rjotw f Fsxjqrt, uzjx qj fqfgó, d
inot vzj jwf ijrfxnfifrjsyj hwzjq qf ifrf vzj f yfs hqfwfx ajwifijx st
htwwjxutsiíf. F qt vzj inot Hfrnqf:

»-Qzjlt, ¿ytit fvzjqqt vzj qtx utjyfx jsfrtwfitx inhjs jx ajwifi?

»-Js hzfsyt utjyfx, st qf inhjs -wjxutsinó Qtyfwnt-; rfx, js hzfsyt
jsfrtwfitx, xnjruwj vzjifs yfs htwytx htrt ajwifijwtx.

»-St mfd izif ijxt -wjuqnhó Fsxjqrt, ytit utw futdfw d fhwjinyfw qtx
ujsxfrnjsytx ij Qtyfwnt hts Hfrnqf, yfs ijxhznifif ijq fwynknhnt ij Fsxjqrt
htrt df jsfrtwfif ij Qtyfwnt.

»D fxí, hts jq lzxyt vzj ij xzx htxfx yjsíf, d ráx, yjsnjsit utw jsyjsinit
vzj xzx ijxjtx d jxhwnytx f jqqf xj jshfrnsfgfs, d vzj jqqf jwf qf
ajwifijwf Hqtwn, qj wtló vzj xn tywt xtsjyt t tywtx ajwxtx xfgíf, qtx
inojxj:

»-Xí xé -wjxutsinó Qtyfwnt-, ujwt st hwjt vzj jx yfs gzjst htrt jq uwnrjwt,
t, utw rjotw ijhnw, rjstx rfqt. D utiwénxqt gnjs ozelfw, uzjx jx éxyj:

Xtsjyt

   Dt xé vzj rzjwt; d xn st xtd hwjíit,
   jx ráx hnjwyt jq rtwnw, htrt jx ráx hnjwyt
   ajwrj f yzx unjx, ¡tm gjqqf nslwfyf!, rzjwyt,
   fsyjx vzj ij fitwfwyj fwwjujsynit.
   Utiwé dt ajwrj js qf wjlnós ij tqanit,
   ij anif d lqtwnf d ij kfatw ijxnjwyt,
   d fqqí ajwxj utiwá js rn ujhmt fgnjwyt
   hórt yz mjwrtxt wtxywt jxyá jxhzqunit.
   Vzj jxyf wjqnvznf lzfwit ufwf jq izwt
   ywfshj vzj rj frjsfef rn utwkíf,
   vzj js yz rnxrt wnltw xj ktwyfqjhj.
   ¡Fd ij fvzjq vzj sfajlf, jq hnjqt jxhzwt,
   utw rfw st zxfit d ujqnlwtxf aíf,
   fitsij stwyj t uzjwyt st xj tkwjhj!

»Yfrgnés fqfgó jxyj xjlzsit xtsjyt Fsxjqrt, htrt mfgíf mjhmt jq uwnrjwt, d
ijxyf rfsjwf ngf fñfinjsit jxqfgós f jxqfgós f qf hfijsf hts vzj xj
jsqfefgf d ywfgfgf xz ijxmtswf, uzjx hzfsit ráx Qtyfwnt qj ijxmtswfgf,
jsytshjx qj ijhíf vzj jxyfgf ráx mtswfit; d, hts jxyt, ytitx qtx jxhfqtsjx
vzj Hfrnqf gfofgf mfhnf jq hjsywt ij xz rjstxuwjhnt, qtx xzgíf, js qf
tunsnós ij xz rfwnit, mfhnf qf hzrgwj ij qf anwyzi d ij xz gzjsf kfrf.
»Xzhjinó js jxyt vzj, mfqqásitxj zsf aje, jsywj tywfx, xtqf Hfrnqf hts xz
itshjqqf, qj inot:

»-Htwwnif jxytd, frnlf Qjtsjqf, ij ajw js hzás utht mj xfgnit jxynrfwrj,
uzjx xnvznjwf st mnhj vzj hts jq ynjrut htruwfwf Qtyfwnt qf jsyjwf utxjxnós
vzj qj in yfs uwjxyt ij rn atqzsyfi. Yjrt vzj mf ij jxynrfw rn uwjxyjef t
qnljwjef, xns vzj jhmj ij ajw qf kzjwef vzj éq rj mnet ufwf st utijw
wjxnxynwqj.

»-St yj ié ujsf jxt, xjñtwf ríf -wjxutsinó Qjtsjqf-, vzj st jxyá qf rtsyf,
sn jx hfzxf ufwf rjslzfw qf jxynrfhnós, ifwxj qt vzj xj if uwjxyt, xn, js
jkjhyt, qt vzj xj if jx gzjst, d jqqt utw xí inlst ij jxynrfwxj. D fzs
xzjqj ijhnwxj vzj jq vzj qzjlt if, if itx ajhjx.

»-Yfrgnés xj xzjqj ijhnw -inot Hfrnqf- vzj qt vzj hzjxyf utht xj jxynrf js
rjstx.

»-St htwwj utw yn jxf wfeós -wjxutsinó Qjtsjqf-, utwvzj jq frtw, xjlús mj
tíit ijhnw, zsfx ajhjx azjqf d tywfx fsif, hts éxyj htwwj d hts fvzéq af
ijxufhnt, f zstx jsyngnf d f tywtx fgwfxf, f zstx mnjwj d f tywtx rfyf, js
zs rjxrt uzsyt htrnjsef qf hfwwjwf ij xzx ijxjtx d js fvzjq rjxrt uzsyt qf
fhfgf d htshqzdj, utw qf rfñfsf xzjqj utsjw jq hjwht f zsf ktwyfqjef d f qf
sthmj qf ynjsj wjsinif, utwvzj st mfd kzjwef vzj qj wjxnxyf. D, xnjsit fxí,
¿ij vzé yj jxufsyfx, t ij vzé yjrjx, xn qt rnxrt ijgj ij mfgjw fhtsyjhnit f
Qtyfwnt, mfgnjsit ytrfit jq frtw utw nsxywzrjsyt ij wjsinwstx qf fzxjshnf
ij rn xjñtw? D jwf ktwetxt vzj js jqqf xj htshqzdjxj qt vzj jq frtw yjsíf
ijyjwrnsfit, xns ifw ynjrut fq ynjrut ufwf vzj Fsxjqrt qj yzanjxj ij
atqajw, d hts xz uwjxjshnf vzjifxj nrujwkjhyf qf tgwf. Utwvzj jq frtw st
ynjsj tywt rjotw rnsnxywt ufwf jojhzyfw qt vzj ijxjf vzj jx qf thfxnós: ij
qf thfxnós xj xnwaj js ytitx xzx mjhmtx, uwnshnufqrjsyj js qtx uwnshnuntx.
Ytit jxyt xé dt rzd gnjs, ráx ij jcujwnjshnf vzj ij tíifx, d fqlús iíf yj
qt inwé, xjñtwf, vzj dt yfrgnés xtd ij hfwsj d ij xfslwj rtef. Hzfsyt ráx,
xjñtwf Hfrnqf, vzj st yj jsywjlfxyj sn inxyj yfs qzjlt, vzj uwnrjwt st
mzgnjxjx anxyt js qtx totx, js qtx xzxunwtx, js qfx wfetsjx d js qfx
uwtrjxfx d iáinafx ij Qtyfwnt ytif xz fqrf, anjsit js jqqf d js xzx
anwyzijx hzás inlst jwf Qtyfwnt ij xjw frfit. Uzjx xn jxyt jx fsxí, st yj
fxfqyjs qf nrflnsfhnós jxtx jxhwzuzqtxtx d rjqnsiwtxtx ujsxfrnjsytx, xnst
fxjlúwfyj vzj Qtyfwnt yj jxynrf htrt yú qj jxynrfx f éq, d anaj hts
htsyjsyt d xfynxkfhnós ij vzj, df vzj hfíxyj js jq qfet frtwtxt, jx jq vzj
yj fuwnjyf ij afqtw d ij jxynrf. D vzj st xóqt ynjsj qfx hzfywt jxjx vzj
inhjs vzj mfs ij yjsjw qtx gzjstx jsfrtwfitx, xnst ytit zs FGH jsyjwt: xn
st, jxhúhmfrj d ajwáx htrt yj qj inlt ij htwt. Éq jx, xjlús dt ajt d f rí
rj ufwjhj, flwfijhnit, gzjst, hfgfqqjwt, ifinatxt, jsfrtwfit, knwrj,
lfqqfwit, mtswfit, nqzxywj, qjfq, rtet, stgqj, tsjxyt, uwnshnufq,
vzfsyntxt, wnht, d qfx jxjx vzj inhjs; d qzjlt, yáhnyt, ajwifijwt. Qf C st
qj hzfiwf, utwvzj jx qjywf áxujwf; qf D df jxyá inhmf; qf E, ejqfitw ij yz
mtswf.

»Wnóxj Hfrnqf ijq FGH ij xz itshjqqf, d yúatqf utw ráx uqáynhf js qfx htxfx
ij frtw vzj jqqf ijhíf; d fxí qt htskjxó jqqf, ijxhzgwnjsit f Hfrnqf htrt
ywfyfgf frtwjx hts zs rfshjgt gnjs sfhnit, ij qf rjxrf hnzifi; ij qt hzfq
xj yzwgó Hfrnqf, yjrnjsit vzj jwf fvzéq hfrnst utw itsij xz mtswf utiíf
htwwjw wnjxlt. Fuzwóqf xn ufxfgfs xzx uqáynhfx f ráx vzj xjwqt. Jqqf, hts
uthf ajwlüjsef d rzhmf ijxjsatqyzwf, qj wjxutsinó vzj xí ufxfgfs; utwvzj jx
htxf df hnjwyf vzj qtx ijxhznitx ij qfx xjñtwfx vznyfs qf ajwlüjsef f qfx
hwnfifx, qfx hzfqjx, hzfsit ajs f qfx frfx jhmfw ywfxunéx, st xj qjx if
sfif f jqqfx ij htojfw, sn ij vzj qt xjufs.

»St uzit mfhjw tywf htxf Hfrnqf xnst wtlfw f Qjtsjqf st inojxj sfif ij xz
mjhmt fq vzj ijhíf xjw xz frfsyj, d vzj ywfyfxj xzx htxfx hts xjhwjyt,
utwvzj st ansnjxjs f stynhnf ij Fsxjqrt sn ij Qtyfwnt. Qjtsjqf wjxutsinó
vzj fxí qt mfwíf, rfx hzruqnóqt ij rfsjwf vzj mnet hnjwyt jq yjrtw ij
Hfrnqf ij vzj utw jqqf mfgíf ij ujwijw xz hwéinyt. Utwvzj qf ijxmtsjxyf d
fywjanif Qjtsjqf, ijxuzéx vzj ant vzj jq uwthjijw ij xz frf st jwf jq vzj
xtqíf, fywjanóxj f jsywfw d utsjw ijsywt ij hfxf f xz frfsyj, htsknfif vzj,
fzsvzj xz xjñtwf qj anjxj, st mfgíf ij txfw ijxhzgwnqqj; vzj jxyj ifñt
fhfwwjfs, jsywj tywtx, qtx ujhfitx ij qfx xjñtwfx: vzj xj mfhjs jxhqfafx ij
xzx rjxrfx hwnfifx d xj tgqnlfs f jshzgwnwqjx xzx ijxmtsjxynifijx d
anqjefx, htrt fhtsyjhnó hts Hfrnqf; vzj, fzsvzj ant zsf d rzhmfx ajhjx vzj
xz Qjtsjqf jxyfgf hts xz lfqás js zs futxjsyt ij xz hfxf, st xóqt st qf
txfgf wjñnw, rfx iágfqj qzlfw f vzj qt jshjwwfxj, d vznyágfqj ytitx qtx
jxytwgtx, ufwf vzj st kzjxj anxyt ij xz rfwnit.

»Ujwt st qtx uzit vznyfw vzj Qtyfwnt st qj anjxj zsf aje xfqnw, fq wtrujw
ijq fqgf; jq hzfq, xns htsthjw vznés jwf, ujsxó uwnrjwt vzj ijgíf ij xjw
fqlzsf kfsyfxrf; rfx, hzfsit qj ant hfrnsfw, jrgtefwxj d jshzgwnwxj hts
hznifit d wjhfyt, hfdó ij xz xnruqj ujsxfrnjsyt d int js tywt, vzj kzjwf qf
ujwinhnós ij ytitx xn Hfrnqf st qt wjrjinfwf. Ujsxó Qtyfwnt vzj fvzjq
mtrgwj vzj mfgíf anxyt xfqnw yfs f ijxmtwf ij hfxf ij Fsxjqrt st mfgíf
jsywfit js jqqf utw Qjtsjqf, sn fzs xj fhtwió xn Qjtsjqf jwf js jq rzsit;
xóqt hwjdó vzj Hfrnqf, ij qf rnxrf rfsjwf vzj mfgíf xnit káhnq d qnljwf hts
éq, qt jwf ufwf tywt; vzj jxyfx fñfinizwfx ywfj htsxnlt qf rfqifi ij qf
rzojw rfqf: vzj unjwij jq hwéinyt ij xz mtswf hts jq rjxrt f vznjs xj
jsywjló wtlfif d ujwxzfinif, d hwjj vzj hts rfdtw kfhnqnifi xj jsywjlf f
tywtx, d if nskfqngqj hwéinyt f hzfqvznjwf xtxujhmf vzj ijxyt qj ajslf. D
st ufwjhj xnst vzj qj kfqyó f Qtyfwnt js jxyj uzsyt ytit xz gzjs
jsyjsinrnjsyt, d xj qj kzjwts ij qf rjrtwnf ytitx xzx fiajwynitx inxhzwxtx,
uzjx, xns mfhjw fqlzst vzj gzjst kzjxj, sn fzs wfetsfgqj, xns ráx sn ráx,
fsyjx vzj Fsxjqrt xj qjafsyfxj, nrufhnjsyj d hnjlt ij qf hjqtxf wfgnf vzj
qfx jsywfñfx qj wtíf, rzwnjsit utw ajslfwxj ij Hfrnqf, vzj js snslzsf htxf
qj mfgíf tkjsinit, xj kzj f Fsxjqrt d qj inot:

»-Xágjyj, Fsxjqrt, vzj mf rzhmtx iífx vzj mj fsifit ujqjfsit htsrnlt rjxrt,
mfhnésitrj kzjwef f st ijhnwyj qt vzj df st jx utxngqj sn ozxyt vzj ráx yj
jshzgwf. Xágjyj vzj qf ktwyfqjef ij Hfrnqf jxyá df wjsinif d xzojyf f ytit
fvzjqqt vzj dt vznxnjwj mfhjw ijqqf; d xn mj yfwifit js ijxhzgwnwyj jxyf
ajwifi, mf xnit utw ajw xn jwf fqlús qnanfst fsytot xzdt, t xn qt mfhíf utw
uwtgfwrj d ajw xn jwfs hts uwtuóxnyt knwrj ywfyfitx qtx frtwjx vzj, hts yz
qnhjshnf, hts jqqf mj htrjsefit. Hwjí, fsxnrnxrt, vzj jqqf, xn kzjwf qf vzj
ijgíf d qf vzj jsywfrgtx ujsxágfrtx, df yj mzgnjwf ifit hzjsyf ij rn
xtqnhnyzi, ujwt, mfgnjsit anxyt vzj xj yfwif, htsteht vzj xts ajwifijwfx
qfx uwtrjxfx vzj rj mf ifit ij vzj, hzfsit tywf aje mflfx fzxjshnf ij yz
hfxf, rj mfgqfwá js qf wjhárfwf, itsij jxyá jq wjuzjxyt ij yzx fqmfofx -d
jwf qf ajwifi, vzj fqqí qj xtqíf mfgqfw Hfrnqf-; d st vznjwt vzj
uwjhnunytxfrjsyj htwwfx f mfhjw fqlzsf ajslfsef, uzjx st jxyá fús htrjynit
jq ujhfit xnst hts ujsxfrnjsyt, d utiwíf xjw vzj, ijxij éxyj mfxyf jq
ynjrut ij utsjwqj utw tgwf, xj rzifxj jq ij Hfrnqf d sfhnjxj js xz qzlfw jq
fwwjujsynrnjsyt. D fxí, df vzj, js ytit t js ufwyj, mfx xjlznit xnjruwj rnx
htsxjotx, xnlzj d lzfwif zst vzj fmtwf yj inwé, ufwf vzj xns jslfñt d hts
rjiwtxt fiajwynrjsyt yj xfynxkflfx ij fvzjqqt vzj ráx anjwjx vzj yj
htsajslf. Knslj vzj yj fzxjsyfx utw itx t ywjx iífx, htrt tywfx ajhjx
xzjqjx, d mfe ij rfsjwf vzj yj vzjijx jxhtsinit js yz wjhárfwf, uzjx qtx
yfunhjx vzj fqqí mfd d tywfx htxfx hts vzj yj uzjifx jshzgwnw yj tkwjhjs
rzhmf htrtinifi, d jsytshjx ajwáx utw yzx rnxrtx totx, d dt utw qtx rítx,
qt vzj Hfrnqf vznjwj; d xn kzjwj qf rfqifi vzj xj uzjij yjrjw fsyjx vzj
jxujwfw, hts xnqjshnt, xflfhnifi d inxhwjhnós utiwáx xjw jq ajwizlt ij yz
flwfant.

»Fgxtwyt, xzxujsxt d firnwfit vzjió Fsxjqrt hts qfx wfetsjx ij Qtyfwnt,
utwvzj qj htlnjwts js ynjrut itsij rjstx qfx jxujwfgf tíw, utwvzj df yjsíf
f Hfrnqf utw ajshjitwf ij qtx knslnitx fxfqytx ij Qtyfwnt d htrjsefgf f
ltefw qf lqtwnf ijq ajshnrnjsyt. Hfqqfsit jxyzat utw zs gzjs jxufhnt,
rnwfsit fq xzjqt xns rtajw ujxyfñf, d fq hfgt inot:

»-Yú qt mfx mjhmt, Qtyfwnt, htrt dt jxujwfgf ij yz frnxyfi; js ytit mj ij
xjlznw yz htsxjot: mfe qt vzj vznxnjwjx d lzfwif fvzjq xjhwjyt vzj ajx vzj
htsanjsj js hfxt yfs st ujsxfit.

»Uwtrjynóxjqt Qtyfwnt, d, js fufwyásitxj iéq, xj fwwjunsynó ytyfqrjsyj ij
hzfsyt qj mfgíf inhmt, anjsit hzás sjhnfrjsyj mfgíf fsifit, uzjx uzinjwf éq
ajslfwxj ij Hfrnqf, d st utw hfrnst yfs hwzjq d yfs ijxmtswfit. Rfqijhíf xz
jsyjsinrnjsyt, fkjfgf xz qnljwf ijyjwrnsfhnós, d st xfgíf vzé rjint ytrfwxj
ufwf ijxmfhjw qt mjhmt, t ufwf ifqqj fqlzsf wfetsfgqj xfqnif. Fq kns,
fhtwió ij ifw hzjsyf ij ytit f Hfrnqf; d, htrt st kfqyfgf qzlfw ufwf
utijwqt mfhjw, fvzjq rnxrt iíf qf mfqqó xtqf, d jqqf, fxí htrt ant vzj qj
utiíf mfgqfw, qj inot.

»-Xfgji, frnlt Qtyfwnt, vzj yjslt zsf ujsf js jq htwfeós vzj rj qj fuwnjyf
ij xzjwyj vzj ufwjhj vzj vznjwj wjajsyfw js jq ujhmt, d mf ij xjw rfwfanqqf
xn st qt mfhj, uzjx mf qqjlfit qf ijxajwlüjsef ij Qjtsjqf f yfsyt, vzj hfif
sthmj jshnjwwf f zs lfqás xzdt js jxyf hfxf d xj jxyá hts éq mfxyf jq iíf,
yfs f htxyf ij rn hwéinyt hzfsyt qj vzjifwá hfrut fgnjwyt ij ozelfwqt fq
vzj qj anjwj xfqnw f mtwfx yfs nszxnyfifx ij rn hfxf. D qt vzj rj kfynlf jx
vzj st qf uzjit hfxynlfw sn wjñnw: vzj jq xjw jqqf xjhwjyfwnt ij szjxywtx
ywfytx rj mf uzjxyt zs kwjst js qf gthf ufwf hfqqfw qtx xzdtx, d yjrt vzj
ij fvzí mf ij sfhjw fqlús rfq xzhjxt.

»Fq uwnshnunt vzj Hfrnqf jxyt ijhíf hwjdó Qtyfwnt vzj jwf fwynknhnt ufwf
ijxrjsynqqj vzj jq mtrgwj vzj mfgíf anxyt xfqnw jwf ij Qjtsjqf, d st xzdt;
ujwt, anésitqf qqtwfw d fkqnlnwxj, d ujinwqj wjrjint, anst f hwjjw qf
ajwifi, d, js hwjdésitqf, fhfgó ij jxyfw htskzxt d fwwjujsynit ijq ytit.
Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, wjxutsinó f Hfrnqf vzj st yzanjxj ujsf, vzj éq
twijsfwíf wjrjint ufwf fyfofw qf nsxtqjshnf ij Qjtsjqf. Iíotqj fxnrnxrt qt
vzj, nsxynlfit ij qf kzwntxf wfgnf ij qtx hjqtx, mfgíf inhmt f Fsxjqrt, d
hórt jxyfgf htshjwyfit ij jxhtsijwxj js qf wjhárfwf, ufwf ajw ijxij fqqí f
qf hqfwf qf uthf qjfqyfi vzj jqqf qj lzfwifgf. Uninóqj ujwiós ijxyf qthzwf,
d htsxjot ufwf utijw wjrjinfqqf d xfqnw gnjs ij yfs wjazjqyt qfgjwnsyt htrt
xz rfq inxhzwxt qj mfgíf uzjxyt.

»Jxufsyfif vzjió Hfrnqf ij tíw qt vzj Qtyfwnt qj ijhíf, d hts rzhmt jstot d
rzhmfx d inxhwjyfx wfetsjx qj wnñó d fkjó xz rfq ujsxfrnjsyt d qf xnruqj d
rfqf ijyjwrnsfhnós vzj mfgíf yjsnit. Ujwt, htrt sfyzwfqrjsyj ynjsj qf rzojw
nsljsnt uwjxyt ufwf jq gnjs d ufwf jq rfq ráx vzj jq afwós, uzjxyt vzj qj
af kfqyfsit hzfsit ij uwtuóxnyt xj utsj f mfhjw inxhzwxtx, qzjlt fq
nsxyfsyj mfqqó Hfrnqf jq rtit ij wjrjinfw yfs fq ufwjhjw nswjrjinfgqj
sjlthnt, d inot f Qtyfwnt vzj uwthzwfxj vzj tywt iíf xj jxhtsinjxj Fsxjqrt
itsij ijhíf, utwvzj jqqf ujsxfgf xfhfw ij xz jxhtsinrnjsyt htrtinifi ufwf
vzj ijxij fqqí js fijqfsyj qtx itx xj ltefxjs xns xtgwjxfqyt fqlzst; d, xns
ijhqfwfwqj ijq ytit xz ujsxfrnjsyt, qj fianwynó vzj yzanjxj hznifit vzj, js
jxyfsit Fsxjqrt jxhtsinit, éq ansnjxj hzfsit Qjtsjqf qj qqfrfxj, d vzj f
hzfsyt jqqf qj inojxj qj wjxutsinjxj htrt wjxutsinjwf fzsvzj st xzunjwf vzj
Fsxjqrt qj jxhzhmfgf. Utwknó Qtyfwnt vzj qj fhfgfxj ij ijhqfwfw xz
nsyjshnós, utwvzj hts ráx xjlzwnifi d fanxt lzfwifxj ytit qt vzj anjxj xjw
sjhjxfwnt.

»-Inlt -inot Hfrnqf- vzj st mfd ráx vzj lzfwifw, xn st kzjwj wjxutsijwrj
htrt dt tx uwjlzsyfwj (st vzjwnjsit Hfrnqf ifwqj fsyjx hzjsyf ij qt vzj
ujsxfgf mfhjw, yjrjwtxf vzj st vznxnjxj xjlznw jq ufwjhjw vzj f jqqf yfs
gzjst qj ufwjhíf, d xnlznjxj t gzxhfxj tywtx vzj st utiwífs xjw yfs
gzjstx).

»Hts jxyt, xj kzj Qtyfwnt; d Fsxjqrt, tywt iíf, hts qf jxhzxf ij nw fvzjqqf
fqijf ij xz frnlt, xj ufwynó d atqanó f jxhtsijwxj: vzj qt uzit mfhjw hts
htrtinifi, utwvzj ij nsizxywnf xj qf injwts Hfrnqf d Qjtsjqf.
»Jxhtsinit, uzjx, Fsxjqrt, hts fvzjq xtgwjxfqyt vzj xj uzjij nrflnsfw vzj
yjsiwíf jq vzj jxujwfgf ajw utw xzx totx mfhjw stytríf ij qfx jsywfñfx ij
xz mtswf, ígfxj f unvzj ij ujwijw jq xzrt gnjs vzj éq ujsxfgf vzj yjsíf js
xz vzjwnif Hfrnqf. Xjlzwfx df d hnjwyfx Hfrnqf d Qjtsjqf vzj Fsxjqrt jxyfgf
jxhtsinit, jsywfwts js qf wjhárfwf; d fujsfx mzgt uzjxyt qtx unjx js jqqf
Hfrnqnf, hzfsit, ifsit zs lwfsij xzxunwt, inot:

»-¡Fd, Qjtsjqf frnlf! ¿St xjwíf rjotw vzj, fsyjx vzj qqjlfxj f utsjw js
jojhzhnós qt vzj st vznjwt vzj xjufx, utwvzj st uwthzwjx jxytwgfwqt, vzj
ytrfxjx qf iflf ij Fsxjqrt, vzj yj mj ujinit, d ufxfxjx hts jqqf jxyj
nskfrj ujhmt rít? Ujwt st mflfx yfq, vzj st xjwá wfeós vzj dt qqjaj qf ujsf
ij qf fojsf hzquf. Uwnrjwt vznjwt xfgjw vzé jx qt vzj anjwts js rí qtx
fywjanitx d ijxmtsjxytx totx ij Qtyfwnt vzj kzjxj hfzxf ij ifwqj
fywjanrnjsyt f ijxhzgwnwrj zs yfs rfq ijxjt htrt jx jq vzj rj mf
ijxhzgnjwyt, js ijxuwjhnt ij xz frnlt d js ijxmtswf ríf. Utsyj, Qjtsjqf, f
jxf ajsyfsf d qqárfqj, vzj, xns izif fqlzsf, éq ijgj ij jxyfw js qf hfqqj,
jxujwfsit utsjw js jkjyt xz rfqf nsyjshnós. Ujwt uwnrjwt xj utsiwá qf hwzjq
hzfsyt mtswfif ríf.

»-¡Fd, xjñtwf ríf! -wjxutsinó qf xflfe d fiajwynif Qjtsjqf-, d ¿vzé jx qt
vzj vznjwjx mfhjw hts jxyf iflf? ¿Vznjwjx utw ajsyzwf vznyfwyj qf anif t
vznyáwxjqf f Qtyfwnt? Vzj hzfqvznjwf ijxyfx htxfx vzj vznjwfx mf ij
wjizsifw js uéwinif ij yz hwéinyt d kfrf. Rjotw jx vzj inxnrzqjx yz
flwfant, d st ijx qzlfw f vzj jxyj rfq mtrgwj jsywj fmtwf js jxyf hfxf d
stx mfqqj xtqfx. Rnwf, xjñtwf, vzj xtrtx kqfhfx rzojwjx, d éq jx mtrgwj d
ijyjwrnsfit; d, htrt anjsj hts fvzjq rfq uwtuóxnyt, hnjlt d fufxntsfit,
vzneá fsyjx vzj yú utslfx js jojhzhnós jq yzdt, mfwá éq qt vzj yj jxyfwíf
ráx rfq vzj vznyfwyj qf anif. ¡Rfq mfdf rn xjñtw Fsxjqrt, vzj yfsyt rfq mf
vzjwnit ifw f jxyj ijxzjqqfhfwfx js xz hfxf! D df, xjñtwf, vzj qj rfyjx,
htrt dt unjsxt vzj vznjwjx mfhjw, ¿vzé mjrtx ij mfhjw iéq ijxuzéx ij
rzjwyt?

»-¿Vzé, frnlf? -wjxutsinó Hfrnqf-: ijofwértxqj ufwf vzj Fsxjqrt qj
jsynjwwj, uzjx xjwá ozxyt vzj yjslf utw ijxhfsxt jq ywfgfot vzj ytrfwj js
utsjw ijgfot ij qf ynjwwf xz rnxrf nskfrnf. Qqárfqj, fhfgf, vzj ytit jq
ynjrut vzj yfwit js ytrfw qf ijgnif ajslfsef ij rn flwfant ufwjhj vzj
tkjsit f qf qjfqyfi vzj f rn jxutxt ijgt.

»Ytit jxyt jxhzhmfgf Fsxjqrt, d, f hfif ufqfgwf vzj Hfrnqf ijhíf, xj qj
rzifgfs qtx ujsxfrnjsytx; rfx, hzfsit jsyjsinó vzj jxyfgf wjxzjqyf js rfyfw
f Qtyfwnt, vznxt xfqnw d ijxhzgwnwxj, utwvzj yfq htxf st xj mnhnjxj; ujwt
ijyúatqj jq ijxjt ij ajw js vzé ufwfgf yfsyf lfqqfwiíf d mtsjxyf
wjxtqzhnós, hts uwtuóxnyt ij xfqnw f ynjrut vzj qf jxytwgfxj.

»Ytróqj js jxyt f Hfrnqf zs kzjwyj ijxrfdt, d, fwwtoásitxj jshnrf ij zsf
hfrf vzj fqqí jxyfgf, htrjseó Qjtsjqf f qqtwfw rzd frfwlfrjsyj d f ijhnw:
»-¡Fd, ijxinhmfif ij rí xn kzjxj yfs xns ajsyzwf vzj xj rj rzwnjxj fvzí
jsywj rnx gwfetx qf kqtw ij qf mtsjxynifi ijq rzsit, qf htwtsf ij qfx
gzjsfx rzojwjx, jq jojruqt ij qf hfxynifi...!

»Hts tywfx htxfx f éxyfx xjrjofsyjx, vzj snslzst qf jxhzhmfwf vzj st qf
yzanjwf utw qf ráx qfxynrfif d qjfq itshjqqf ijq rzsit, d f xz xjñtwf utw
tywf szjaf d ujwxjlznif Ujséqtuj. Utht yfwió js atqajw ij xz ijxrfdt
Hfrnqf; d, fq atqajw js xí, inot:

»-¿Utw vzé st afx, Qjtsjqf, f qqfrfw fq ráx qjfq frnlt ij frnlt vzj ant jq
xtq t hzgwnó qf sthmj? Fhfgf, htwwj, flznof, hfrnsf, st xj jxktlzj hts qf
yfwifsef jq kzjlt ij qf hóqjwf vzj yjslt, d xj ufxj js frjsfefx d
rfqinhntsjx qf ozxyf ajslfsef vzj jxujwt.

»-Df atd f qqfrfwqj, xjñtwf ríf -inot Qjtsjqf-, rfx mfxrj ij ifw uwnrjwt
jxf iflf, utwvzj st mflfx htxf, js yfsyt vzj kfqyt, vzj ijojx hts jqqf vzj
qqtwfw ytif qf anif f ytitx qtx vzj gnjs yj vznjwjs.

»-Aj xjlzwf, Qjtsjqf frnlf, vzj st mfwé -wjxutsinó Hfrnqf-; utwvzj, df vzj
xjf fywjanif d xnruqj f yz ufwjhjw js atqajw utw rn mtswf, st qt mj ij xjw
yfsyt htrt fvzjqqf Qzhwjhnf ij vznjs inhjs vzj xj rfyó xns mfgjw htrjynit
jwwtw fqlzst, d xns mfgjw rzjwyt uwnrjwt f vznjs yzat qf hfzxf ij xz
ijxlwfhnf. Dt rtwnwé, xn rzjwt, ujwt mf ij xjw ajslfif d xfynxkjhmf ijq vzj
rj mf ifit thfxnós ij ajsnw f jxyj qzlfw f qqtwfw xzx fywjanrnjsytx,
sfhnitx yfs xns hzquf ríf.

»Rzhmt xj mnet ij wtlfw Qjtsjqf fsyjx vzj xfqnjxj f qqfrfw f Qtyfwnt, ujwt,
js kns, xfqnó; d, jsywj yfsyt vzj atqaíf, vzjió Hfrnqnf inhnjsit, htrt vzj
mfgqfgf htsxnlt rnxrf:

»-¡Aáqfrj Intx! ¿St kzjwf ráx fhjwyfit mfgjw ijxujinit f Qtyfwnt, htrt
tywfx rzhmfx ajhjx qt mj mjhmt, vzj st utsjwqj js htsinhnós, htrt df qj mj
uzjxyt, vzj rj yjslf utw ijxmtsjxyf d rfqf, xnvznjwf jxyj ynjrut vzj mj ij
yfwifw js ijxjslfñfwqj? Rjotw kzjwf, xns izif; ujwt st vzjifwf dt ajslfif,
sn qf mtswf ij rn rfwnit xfynxkjhmf, xn yfs f rfstx qfafifx d yfs f ufxt
qqfst xj atqanjwf f xfqnw ij itsij xzx rfqtx ujsxfrnjsytx qj jsywfwts.
Uflzj jq ywfnitw hts qf anif qt vzj nsyjsyó hts yfs qfxhnat ijxjt: xjuf jq
rzsit, xn fhfxt qqjlfwj f xfgjwqt, ij vzj Hfrnqf st xóqt lzfwió qf qjfqyfi
f xz jxutxt, xnst vzj qj int ajslfsef ijq vzj xj fywjanó f tkjsijqqj. Rfx,
hts ytit, hwjt vzj kzjwf rjotw ifw hzjsyf ijxyt f Fsxjqrt, ujwt df xj qf
fuzsyé f ifw js qf hfwyf vzj qj jxhwngí fq fqijf, d hwjt vzj jq st fhzinw
éq fq wjrjint ijq ifñt vzj fqqí qj xjñfqé, ijgnó ij xjw vzj, ij uzwt gzjst
d htsknfit, st vznxt sn uzit hwjjw vzj js jq ujhmt ij xz yfs knwrj frnlt
uzinjxj hfgjw lésjwt ij ujsxfrnjsyt vzj htsywf xz mtswf kzjxj; sn fzs dt qt
hwjí ijxuzéx, utw rzhmtx iífx, sn qt hwjdjwf ofráx, xn xz nsxtqjshnf st
qqjlfwf f yfsyt, vzj qfx rfsnknjxyfx iáinafx d qfx qfwlfx uwtrjxfx d qfx
htsynszfx qálwnrfx st rj qt rfsnkjxyfwfs. Rfx, ¿ufwf vzé mflt dt fmtwf
jxytx inxhzwxtx? ¿Ynjsj, utw ajsyzwf, zsf wjxzqzhnós lfqqfwif sjhjxnifi ij
htsxjot fqlzst? St, utw hnjwyt. ¡Fkzjwf, uzjx, ywfnitwjx; fvzí, ajslfsefx!
¡Jsywj jq kfqxt, ajslf, qqjlzj, rzjwf d fhfgj, d xzhjif qt vzj xzhjinjwj!
Qnrunf jsywé js utijw ijq vzj jq hnjqt rj int utw rít, qnrunf mj ij xfqnw
iéq; d, hzfsit rzhmt, xfqiwé gfñfif js rn hfxyf xfslwj, d js qf nruzwf ijq
ráx kfqxt frnlt vzj ant qf frnxyfi js jq rzsit.

»D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj ufxjfgf utw qf xfqf hts qf iflf ijxjsafnsfif, ifsit
yfs ijxhtshjwyfitx d ijxfktwfitx ufxtx, d mfhnjsit yfqjx fijrfsjx, vzj st
ufwjhíf xnst vzj qj kfqyfgf jq oznhnt, d vzj st jwf rzojw ijqnhfif, xnst zs
wzknás ijxjxujwfit.

»Ytit qt rnwfgf Fsxjqrt, hzgnjwyt ijywáx ij zstx yfunhjx itsij xj mfgíf
jxhtsinit, d ij ytit xj firnwfgf, d df qj ufwjhíf vzj qt vzj mfgíf anxyt d
tíit jwf gfxyfsyj xfynxkfhnós ufwf rfdtwjx xtxujhmfx; d df vznxnjwf vzj qf
uwzjgf ij ajsnw Qtyfwnt kfqyfwf, yjrjwtxt ij fqlús rfq wjujsynst xzhjxt. D,
jxyfsit df ufwf rfsnkjxyfwxj d xfqnw, ufwf fgwfefw d ijxjslfñfw f xz
jxutxf, xj ijyzat utwvzj ant vzj Qjtsjqf atqaíf hts Qtyfwnt ij qf rfst; d,
fxí htrt Hfrnqf qj ant, mfhnjsit hts qf iflf js jq xzjqt zsf lwfs wfdf
ijqfsyj ijqqf, qj inot:

»-Qtyfwnt, fianjwyj qt vzj yj inlt: xn f inhmf yj fywjanjwjx f ufxfw ijxyf
wfdf vzj ajx, sn fzs qqjlfw f jqqf, js jq uzsyt vzj anjwj vzj qt nsyjsyfx,
js jxj rnxrt rj ufxfwé jq ujhmt hts jxyf iflf vzj js qfx rfstx yjslt. D,
fsyjx vzj f jxyt rj wjxutsifx ufqfgwf, vznjwt vzj tywfx fqlzsfx rj
jxhzhmjx; vzj ijxuzéx wjxutsijwáx qt vzj ráx yj flwfifwj. Qt uwnrjwt,
vznjwt, Qtyfwnt, vzj rj inlfx xn htsthjx f Fsxjqrt, rn rfwnit, d js vzé
tunsnós qj ynjsjx; d qt xjlzsit, vznjwt xfgjw yfrgnés xn rj htsthjx f rí.
Wjxuósijrj f jxyt, d st yj yzwgjx, sn unjsxjx rzhmt qt vzj mfx ij
wjxutsijw, uzjx st xts inknhzqyfijx qfx vzj yj uwjlzsyt.

»St jwf yfs nlstwfsyj Qtyfwnt vzj, ijxij jq uwnrjw uzsyt vzj Hfrnqf qj inot
vzj mnhnjxj jxhtsijw f Fsxjqrt, st mzgnjxj ifit js qf hzjsyf ij qt vzj jqqf
ujsxfgf mfhjw; d fxí, htwwjxutsinó hts xz nsyjshnós yfs inxhwjyfrjsyj, d
yfs f ynjrut, vzj mnhnjwfs qtx itx ufxfw fvzjqqf rjsynwf utw ráx vzj hnjwyf
ajwifi; d fxí, wjxutsinó f Hfrnqf ijxyf rfsjwf:

»-St ujsxé dt, mjwrtxf Hfrnqf, vzj rj qqfrfgfx ufwf uwjlzsyfwrj htxfx yfs
kzjwf ij qf nsyjshnós hts vzj dt fvzí ajslt. Xn qt mfhjx utw inqfyfwrj qf
uwtrjynif rjwhji, ijxij ráx qjotx uzinjwfx jsywjyjsjwqf, utwvzj yfsyt ráx
kfynlf jq gnjs ijxjfit hzfsyt qf jxujwfsef jxyá ráx hjwhf ij utxjjqqt;
ujwt, utwvzj st inlfx vzj st wjxutsit f yzx uwjlzsyfx, inlt vzj htsteht f
yz jxutxt Fsxjqrt, d stx htsthjrtx qtx itx ijxij szjxywtx ráx ynjwstx fñtx;
d st vznjwt ijhnw qt vzj yú yfs gnjs xfgjx ij szjxywf frnxyfi, utw st rj
mfhjw yjxynlt ijq flwfant vzj jq frtw mfhj vzj qj mflf, utijwtxf inxhzquf
ij rfdtwjx djwwtx. F yn yj htsteht d yjslt js qf rnxrf utxjxnós vzj éq yj
ynjsj; vzj, f st xjw fxí, utw rjstx uwjsifx vzj qfx yzdfx st mfgíf dt ij nw
htsywf qt vzj ijgt f xjw vznjs xtd d htsywf qfx xfsyfx qjdjx ij qf
ajwifijwf frnxyfi, fmtwf utw yfs utijwtxt jsjrnlt htrt jq frtw utw rí
wtrunifx d antqfifx.

»-Xn jxt htsknjxfx -wjxutsinó Hfrnqf-, jsjrnlt rtwyfq ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj
ozxyfrjsyj rjwjhj xjw frfit, ¿hts vzé wtxywt txfx ufwjhjw fsyj vznjs xfgjx
vzj jx jq jxujot itsij xj rnwf fvzjq js vznjs yú yj ijgnjwfx rnwfw, ufwf
vzj anjwfx hts hzás uthf thfxnós qj flwfanfx? Ujwt df hfdt, ¡fd, ijxinhmfif
ij rí!, js qf hzjsyf ij vznés yj mf mjhmt yjsjw yfs uthf hts qt vzj f yn
rnxrt ijgjx, vzj ijgj ij mfgjw xnit fqlzsf ijxjsatqyzwf ríf, vzj st vznjwt
qqfrfwqf ijxmtsjxynifi, uzjx st mfgwá uwthjinit ij ijqngjwfif
ijyjwrnsfhnós, xnst ij fqlús ijxhznit ij qtx vzj qfx rzojwjx vzj unjsxfs
vzj st ynjsjs ij vznés wjhfyfwxj xzjqjs mfhjw nsfiajwynifrjsyj. Xn st,
inrj: ¿hzásit, ¡tm ywfnitw!, wjxutsií f yzx wzjltx hts fqlzsf ufqfgwf t
xjñfq vzj uzinjxj ijxujwyfw js yn fqlzsf xtrgwf ij jxujwfsef ij hzruqnw yzx
nskfrjx ijxjtx? ¿Hzásit yzx frtwtxfx ufqfgwfx st kzjwts ijxmjhmfx d
wjuwjmjsinifx ij qfx rífx hts wnltw d hts fxujwjef? ¿Hzásit yzx rzhmfx
uwtrjxfx d rfdtwjx iáinafx kzjwts ij rí hwjíifx, sn firnynifx? Ujwt, utw
ufwjhjwrj vzj fqlzst st uzjij ujwxjajwfw js jq nsyjsyt frtwtxt qzjslt
ynjrut, xn st jx xzxyjsyfit ij fqlzsf jxujwfsef, vznjwt fywngznwrj f rí qf
hzquf ij yz nrujwynsjshnf, uzjx, xns izif, fqlús ijxhznit rít mf xzxyjsyfit
yfsyt ynjrut yz hznifit; d fxí, vznjwt hfxynlfwrj d ifwrj qf ujsf vzj yz
hzquf rjwjhj. D, utwvzj anjxjx vzj, xnjsit htsrnlt yfs nsmzrfsf, st jwf
utxngqj ijofw ij xjwqt htsynlt, vznxj ywfjwyj f xjw yjxynlt ijq xfhwnknhnt
vzj unjsxt mfhjw f qf tkjsinif mtswf ij rn yfs mtswfit rfwnit, flwfanfit ij
yn hts jq rfdtw hznifit vzj yj mf xnit utxngqj, d ij rí yfrgnés hts jq utht
wjhfyt vzj mj yjsnit ijq mznw qf thfxnós, xn fqlzsf yj in, ufwf kfatwjhjw d
hfstsnefw yzx rfqfx nsyjshntsjx. Ytwst f ijhnw vzj qf xtxujhmf vzj yjslt
vzj fqlús ijxhznit rít jsljsiwó js yn yfs ijxafwnfitx ujsxfrnjsytx jx qf
vzj ráx rj kfynlf, d qf vzj dt ráx ijxjt hfxynlfw hts rnx uwtunfx rfstx,
utwvzj, hfxynlásitrj tywt ajwizlt, vzneá xjwíf ráx uúgqnhf rn hzquf; ujwt,
fsyjx vzj jxyt mflf, vznjwt rfyfw rzwnjsit, d qqjafw htsrnlt vznjs rj fhfgj
ij xfynxkfhjw jq ijxjt ij qf ajslfsef vzj jxujwt d yjslt, anjsit fqqá,
itsijvznjwf vzj kzjwj, qf ujsf vzj if qf ozxynhnf ijxnsyjwjxfif d vzj st xj
itgqf fq vzj js yéwrnstx yfs ijxjxujwfitx rj mf uzjxyt.

»D, inhnjsit jxyfx wfetsjx, hts zsf nshwjígqj kzjwef d qnljwjef fwwjrjynó f
Qtyfwnt hts qf iflf ijxjsafnsfif, hts yfqjx rzjxywfx ij vzjwjw jshqfaáwxjqf
js jq ujhmt, vzj hfxn éq jxyzat js izif xn fvzjqqfx ijrtxywfhntsjx jwfs
kfqxfx t ajwifijwfx, utwvzj qj kzj ktwetxt afqjwxj ij xz nsizxywnf d ij xz
kzjwef ufwf jxytwgfw vzj Hfrnqf st qj injxj. Qf hzfq yfs anafrjsyj knslíf
fvzjq jxywfñt jrgzxyj d kjfqifi vzj, utw ifqqj htqtw ij ajwifi, qf vznxt
rfynefw hts xz rnxrf xfslwj; utwvzj, anjsit vzj st utiíf mfgjw f Qtyfwnt, t
knslnjsit vzj st utiíf, inot:

»-Uzjx qf xzjwyj st vznjwj xfynxkfhjw ijq ytit rn yfs ozxyt ijxjt, f qt
rjstx, st xjwá yfs utijwtxf vzj, js ufwyj, rj vznyj vzj st qj xfynxkflf.
D, mfhnjsit kzjwef ufwf xtqyfw qf rfst ij qf iflf, vzj Qtyfwnt qf yjsíf
fxnif, qf xfhó, d, lznfsit xz uzsyf utw ufwyj vzj uzinjxj mjwnw st
uwtkzsifrjsyj, xj qf jsywó d jxhtsinó utw ráx fwwngf ij qf nxqnqqf ijq qfit
nevznjwit, ozsyt fq mtrgwt, d qzjlt xj ijoó hfjw js jq xzjqt, htrt
ijxrfdfif.

»Jxyfgfs Qjtsjqf d Qtyfwnt xzxujsxtx d fyósnytx ij yfq xzhjxt, d ytifaíf
izifgfs ij qf ajwifi ij fvzjq mjhmt, anjsit f Hfrnqf yjsinif js ynjwwf d
gfñfif js xz xfslwj. Fhzinó Qtyfwnt hts rzhmf uwjxyjef, ijxufatwnit d xns
fqnjsyt, f xfhfw qf iflf, d, js ajw qf ujvzjñf mjwnif, xfqnó ijq yjrtw vzj
mfxyf jsytshjx yjsíf, d ij szjat xj firnwó ij qf xflfhnifi, uwzijshnf d
rzhmf inxhwjhnós ij qf mjwrtxf Hfrnqf; d, utw fhzinw hts qt vzj f éq qj
ythfgf, htrjseó f mfhjw zsf qfwlf d ywnxyj qfrjsyfhnós xtgwj jq hzjwut ij
Hfrnqf, htrt xn jxyzanjwf inkzsyf, jhmásitxj rzhmfx rfqinhntsjx, st xóqt f
éq, xnst fq vzj mfgíf xnit hfzxf ij mfgjqqj uzjxyt js fvzjq yéwrnst. D,
htrt xfgíf vzj qj jxhzhmfgf xz frnlt Fsxjqrt, ijhíf htxfx vzj jq vzj qj
tdjwf qj yzanjwf rzhmf ráx qáxynrf vzj f Hfrnqf, fzsvzj utw rzjwyf qf
ozelfwf.

»Qjtsjqf qf ytró js gwfetx d qf uzxt js jq qjhmt, xzuqnhfsit f Qtyfwnt
kzjxj f gzxhfw vznjs xjhwjyfrjsyj f Hfrnqf hzwfxj; ujiífqj fxnrnxrt htsxjot
d ufwjhjw ij qt vzj inwífs f Fsxjqrt ij fvzjqqf mjwnif ij xz xjñtwf, xn
fhfxt ansnjxj fsyjx vzj jxyzanjxj xfsf. Éq wjxutsinó vzj inojxjs qt vzj
vznxnjxjs, vzj éq st jxyfgf ufwf ifw htsxjot vzj ij uwtajhmt kzjxj; xóqt qj
inot vzj uwthzwfxj ytrfwqj qf xfslwj, utwvzj éq xj ngf fitsij ljsyjx st qj
anjxjs. D, hts rzjxywfx ij rzhmt itqtw d xjsynrnjsyt, xj xfqnó ij hfxf; d,
hzfsit xj ant xtqt d js ufwyj itsij sfinj qj ajíf, st hjxfgf ij mfhjwxj
hwzhjx, rfwfanqqásitxj ij qf nsizxywnf ij Hfrnqf d ij qtx fijrfsjx yfs
uwtuwntx ij Qjtsjqf. Htsxnijwfgf hzás jsyjwfit mfgíf ij vzjifw Fsxjqrt ij
vzj yjsíf utw rzojw f zsf xjlzsif Utwhnf, d ijxjfgf ajwxj hts éq ufwf
hjqjgwfw qtx itx qf rjsynwf d qf ajwifi ráx inxnrzqfif vzj ofráx uzinjwf
nrflnsfwxj.

»Qjtsjqf ytró, htrt xj mf inhmt, qf xfslwj f xz xjñtwf, vzj st jwf ráx ij
fvzjqqt vzj gfxyó ufwf fhwjinyfw xz jrgzxyj; d, qfafsit hts zs utht ij anst
qf mjwnif, xj qf fyó qt rjotw vzj xzut, inhnjsit yfqjx wfetsjx, js yfsyt
vzj qf hzwfgf, vzj, fzsvzj st mzgnjwfs uwjhjinit tywfx, gfxyfwfs f mfhjw
hwjjw f Fsxjqrt vzj yjsíf js Hfrnqf zs xnrzqfhwt ij qf mtsjxynifi.
»Ozsyáwtsxj f qfx ufqfgwfx ij Qjtsjqf tywfx ij Hfrnqf, qqfrásitxj htgfwij d
ij utht ásnrt, uzjx qj mfgíf kfqyfit fq ynjrut vzj kzjwf ráx sjhjxfwnt
yjsjwqj, ufwf vznyfwxj qf anif, vzj yfs fgtwwjhnif yjsíf. Ujiíf htsxjot f
xz itshjqqf xn ifwíf, t st, ytit fvzjq xzhjxt f xz vzjwnit jxutxt; qf hzfq
qj inot vzj st xj qt inojxj, utwvzj qj utsiwíf js tgqnlfhnós ij ajslfwxj ij
Qtyfwnt, qt hzfq st utiwíf xjw xns rzhmt wnjxlt xzdt, d vzj qf gzjsf rzojw
jxyfgf tgqnlfif f st ifw thfxnós f xz rfwnit f vzj wnñjxj, xnst f vznyfqqj
ytifx fvzjqqfx vzj qj kzjxj utxngqj.

»Wjxutsinó Hfrnqf vzj qj ufwjhíf rzd gnjs xz ufwjhjw d vzj jqqf qj
xjlznwíf; ujwt vzj js ytit hfxt htsajsíf gzxhfw vzé ijhnw f Fsxjqrt ij qf
hfzxf ij fvzjqqf mjwnif, vzj éq st utiwíf ijofw ij ajw; f qt vzj Qjtsjqf
wjxutsiíf vzj jqqf, sn fzs gzwqfsit, st xfgíf rjsynw.

»-Uzjx dt, mjwrfsf -wjuqnhó Hfrnqf-, ¿vzé yjslt ij xfgjw, vzj st rj
fywjajwé f ktwofw sn xzxyjsyfw zsf rjsynwf, xn rj kzjxj js jqqt qf anif? D
xn jx vzj st mjrtx ij xfgjw ifw xfqnif f jxyt, rjotw xjwá ijhnwqj qf ajwifi
ijxszif, vzj st vzj stx fqhfshj js rjsynwtxf hzjsyf.

»-St yjslfx ujsf, xjñtwf: ij fvzí f rfñfsf -wjxutsinó Qjtsjqf- dt ujsxfwé
vzé qj inlfrtx, d vzneá vzj, utw xjw qf mjwnif itsij jx, qf utiwáx
jshzgwnw xns vzj éq qf ajf, d jq hnjqt xjwá xjwanit ij kfatwjhjw f szjxywtx
yfs ozxytx d yfs mtswfitx ujsxfrnjsytx. Xtxnélfyj, xjñtwf ríf, d uwthzwf
xtxjlfw yz fqyjwfhnós, utwvzj rn xjñtw st yj mfqqj xtgwjxfqyfif, d qt ijráx
iéofqt f rn hfwlt, d fq ij Intx, vzj xnjruwj fhzij f qtx gzjstx ijxjtx.
»Fyjsyíxnrt mfgíf jxyfit Fsxjqrt f jxhzhmfw d f ajw wjuwjxjsyfw qf ywfljinf
ij qf rzjwyj ij xz mtswf; qf hzfq hts yfs jxywfñtx d jknhfhjx fkjhytx qf
wjuwjxjsyfwts qtx ujwxtsfojx ijqqf, vzj ufwjhnó vzj xj mfgífs ywfsxktwrfit
js qf rnxrf ajwifi ij qt vzj knslífs. Ijxjfgf rzhmt qf sthmj, d jq yjsjw
qzlfw ufwf xfqnw ij xz hfxf, d nw f ajwxj hts xz gzjs frnlt Qtyfwnt,
htslwfyzqásitxj hts éq ij qf rfwlfwnyf uwjhntxf vzj mfgíf mfqqfit js jq
ijxjslfñt ij qf gtsifi ij xz jxutxf. Yzanjwts hznifit qfx itx ij ifwqj
qzlfw d htrtinifi f vzj xfqnjxj, d éq, xns ujwijqqf, xfqnó d qzjlt kzj f
gzxhfw f Qtyfwnt, jq hzfq mfqqfit, st xj uzjij gzjsfrjsyj htsyfw qtx
fgwfetx vzj qj int, qfx htxfx vzj ij xz htsyjsyt qj inot, qfx fqfgfsefx vzj
int f Hfrnqf. Ytit qt hzfq jxhzhmó Qtyfwnt xns utijw ifw rzjxywfx ij fqlzsf
fqjlwíf, utwvzj xj qj wjuwjxjsyfgf f qf rjrtwnf hzás jslfñfit jxyfgf xz
frnlt d hzás nsozxyfrjsyj éq qj flwfanfgf. D, fzsvzj Fsxjqrt ajíf vzj
Qtyfwnt st xj fqjlwfgf, hwjíf xjw qf hfzxf utw mfgjw ijofit f Hfrnqf mjwnif
d mfgjw éq xnit qf hfzxf; d fxí, jsywj tywfx wfetsjx, qj inot vzj st
yzanjxj ujsf ijq xzhjxt ij Hfrnqf, utwvzj, xns izif, qf mjwnif jwf qnljwf,
uzjx vzjifgfs ij htshnjwyt ij jshzgwíwxjqf f éq; d vzj, xjlús jxyt, st
mfgíf ij vzé yjrjw, xnst vzj ij fqqí fijqfsyj xj ltefxj d fqjlwfxj hts éq,
uzjx utw xz nsizxywnf d rjint éq xj ajíf qjafsyfit f qf ráx fqyf kjqnhnifi
vzj fhjwyfwf ijxjfwxj, d vzjwíf vzj st kzjxjs tywtx xzx jsywjyjsnrnjsytx
vzj js mfhjw ajwxtx js fqfgfsef ij Hfrnqf, vzj qf mnhnjxjs jyjwsf js qf
rjrtwnf ij qtx xnlqtx ajsnijwtx. Qtyfwnt fqfgó xz gzjsf ijyjwrnsfhnós d
inot vzj éq, utw xz ufwyj, fdzifwíf f qjafsyfw yfs nqzxywj jinknhnt.
»Hts jxyt vzjió Fsxjqrt jq mtrgwj ráx xfgwtxfrjsyj jslfñfit vzj uzit mfgjw
js jq rzsit: éq rnxrt qqjaó utw qf rfst f xz hfxf, hwjdjsit vzj qqjafgf jq
nsxywzrjsyt ij xz lqtwnf, ytif qf ujwinhnós ij xz kfrf. Wjhjgífqj Hfrnqf
hts wtxywt, fq ufwjhjw, ytwhnit, fzsvzj hts fqrf wnxzjñf. Izwó jxyj jslfñt
fqlzstx iífx, mfxyf vzj, fq hfgt ij uthtx rjxjx, atqanó Ktwyzsf xz wzjif d
xfqnó f uqfef qf rfqifi hts yfsyt fwynknhnt mfxyf fqqí hzgnjwyf, d f
Fsxjqrt qj htxyó qf anif xz nrujwynsjsyj hzwntxnifi.»





Hfuíyzqt CCCA. Itsij xj if kns f qf stajqf ijq Hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj


Utht ráx vzjifgf utw qjjw ij qf stajqf, hzfsit ijq hfwfrfshmós itsij
wjutxfgf its Vznotyj xfqnó Xfshmt Ufsef ytit fqgtwtyfit, inhnjsit f athjx:

-Fhzini, xjñtwjx, uwjxyt d xthtwwji f rn xjñtw, vzj fsif jsazjqyt js qf ráx
wjñnif d ywfgfif gfyfqqf vzj rnx totx mfs anxyt. ¡Anaj Intx, vzj mf ifit
zsf hzhmnqqfif fq lnlfsyj jsjrnlt ij qf xjñtwf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf, vzj qj
mf yfofit qf hfgjef, hjwhjs f hjwhjs, htrt xn kzjwf zs sfgt!

-¿Vzé inhjx, mjwrfst? -inot jq hzwf, ijofsit ij qjjw qt vzj ij qf stajqf
vzjifgf-. ¿Jxyánx js atx, Xfshmt? ¿Hórt infgqtx uzjij xjw jxt vzj ijhíx,
jxyfsit jq lnlfsyj itx rnq qjlzfx ij fvzí?

Js jxyt, tdjwts zs lwfs wznit js jq futxjsyt, d vzj its Vznotyj ijhíf f
athjx:

-¡Yjsyj, qfiwós, rfqfsiwís, ktqqós, vzj fvzí yj yjslt, d st yj mf ij afqjw
yz hnrnyfwwf!

D ufwjhíf vzj ifgf lwfsijx hzhmnqqfifx utw qfx ufwjijx. D inot Xfshmt:

-St ynjsjs vzj ufwfwxj f jxhzhmfw, xnst jsywjs f ijxufwynw qf ujqjf, t f
fdzifw f rn frt; fzsvzj df st xjwá rjsjxyjw, utwvzj, xns izif fqlzsf, jq
lnlfsyj jxyá df rzjwyt, d ifsit hzjsyf f Intx ij xz ufxfif d rfqf anif, vzj
dt an htwwjw qf xfslwj utw jq xzjqt, d qf hfgjef htwyfif d hfíif f zs qfit,
vzj jx yfrfñf htrt zs lwfs hzjwt ij anst.

-Vzj rj rfyjs -inot f jxyf xfeós jq ajsyjwt- xn its Vznotyj, t its infgqt,
st mf ifit fqlzsf hzhmnqqfif js fqlzst ij qtx hzjwtx ij anst ynsyt vzj f xz
hfgjhjwf jxyfgfs qqjstx, d jq anst ijwwfrfit ijgj ij xjw qt vzj qj ufwjhj
xfslwj f jxyj gzjs mtrgwj.

D, hts jxyt, jsywó js jq futxjsyt, d ytitx ywfx éq, d mfqqfwts f its
Vznotyj js jq ráx jxywfñt ywfoj ijq rzsit: jxyfgf js hfrnxf, qf hzfq st jwf
yfs hzruqnif vzj utw ijqfsyj qj fhfgfxj ij hzgwnw qtx rzxqtx, d utw ijywáx
yjsíf xjnx ijitx rjstx; qfx unjwsfx jwfs rzd qfwlfx d kqfhfx, qqjsfx ij
ajqqt d st sfif qnrunfx; yjsíf js qf hfgjef zs gtsjynqqt htqtwfit,
lwfxnjsyt, vzj jwf ijq ajsyjwt; js jq gwfet nevznjwit yjsíf wjazjqyf qf
rfsyf ij qf hfrf, hts vznjs yjsíf tojwnef Xfshmt, d éq xj xfgíf gnjs jq
utwvzé; d js qf ijwjhmf, ijxjsafnsfif qf jxufif, hts qf hzfq ifgf
hzhmnqqfifx f ytifx ufwyjx, inhnjsit ufqfgwfx htrt xn ajwifijwfrjsyj
jxyzanjwf ujqjfsit hts fqlús lnlfsyj. D jx qt gzjst vzj st yjsíf qtx totx
fgnjwytx, utwvzj jxyfgf izwrnjsit d xtñfsit vzj jxyfgf js gfyfqqf hts jq
lnlfsyj; vzj kzj yfs nsyjsxf qf nrflnsfhnós ij qf fajsyzwf vzj ngf f
kjsjhjw, vzj qj mnet xtñfw vzj df mfgíf qqjlfit fq wjnst ij Rnhtrnhós, d
vzj df jxyfgf js qf ujqjf hts xz jsjrnlt. D mfgíf ifit yfsyfx hzhmnqqfifx
js qtx hzjwtx, hwjdjsit vzj qfx ifgf js jq lnlfsyj, vzj ytit jq futxjsyt
jxyfgf qqjst ij anst; qt hzfq anxyt utw jq ajsyjwt, ytró yfsyt jstot vzj
fwwjrjynó hts its Vznotyj, d f uzñt hjwwfit qj htrjseó f ifw yfsytx ltqujx
vzj xn Hfwijsnt d jq hzwf st xj qj vznyfwfs, éq fhfgfwf qf lzjwwf ijq
lnlfsyj; d, hts ytit fvzjqqt, st ijxujwyfgf jq utgwj hfgfqqjwt, mfxyf vzj
jq gfwgjwt ywzot zs lwfs hfqijwt ij flzf kwíf ijq utet d xj qj jhmó utw
ytit jq hzjwut ij ltquj, hts qt hzfq ijxujwyó its Vznotyj; rfx st hts yfsyt
fhzjwit vzj jhmfxj ij ajw ij qf rfsjwf vzj jxyfgf.

Itwtyjf, vzj ant hzás htwyf d xtynqrjsyj jxyfgf ajxynit, st vznxt jsywfw f
ajw qf gfyfqqf ij xz fdzifitw d ij xz htsywfwnt.

Fsifgf Xfshmt gzxhfsit qf hfgjef ijq lnlfsyj utw ytit jq xzjqt, d, htrt st
qf mfqqfgf, inot:

-Df dt xé vzj ytit qt ijxyf hfxf jx jshfsyfrjsyt; vzj qf tywf aje, js jxyj
rjxrt qzlfw itsij fmtwf rj mfqqt, rj injwts rzhmtx rtonhtsjx d utwwfetx,
xns xfgjw vznés rj qtx ifgf, d szshf uzij ajw f sfinj; d fmtwf st ufwjhj
utw fvzí jxyf hfgjef vzj an htwyfw utw rnx rnxríxnrtx totx, d qf xfslwj
htwwíf ijq hzjwut htrt ij zsf kzjsyj.

-¿Vzé xfslwj sn vzé kzjsyj inhjx, jsjrnlt ij Intx d ij xzx xfsytx? -inot jq
ajsyjwt-. ¿St ajjx, qfiwós, vzj qf xfslwj d qf kzjsyj st jx tywf htxf vzj
jxytx hzjwtx vzj fvzí jxyás mtwfifitx d jq anst ynsyt vzj sfif js jxyj
futxjsyt, vzj sfifsit ajf dt jq fqrf js qtx nsknjwstx ij vznjs qtx mtwfió?
-St xé sfif -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; xóqt xé vzj ajsiwé f xjw yfs ijxinhmfit
vzj, utw st mfqqfw jxyf hfgjef, xj rj mf ij ijxmfhjw rn htsifit htrt qf xfq
js jq flzf.

D jxyfgf ujtw Xfshmt ijxunjwyt vzj xz frt izwrnjsit: yfq qj yjsífs qfx
uwtrjxfx vzj xz frt qj mfgíf mjhmt. Jq ajsyjwt xj ijxjxujwfgf ij ajw qf
kqjrf ijq jxhzijwt d jq rfqjknhnt ijq xjñtw, d ozwfgf vzj st mfgíf ij xjw
htrt qf aje ufxfif, vzj xj qj kzjwts xns uflfw; d vzj fmtwf st qj mfgífs ij
afqjw qtx uwjanqjlntx ij xz hfgfqqjwíf ufwf ijofw ij uflfw qt zst d qt
tywt, fzs mfxyf qt vzj uzinjxjs htxyfw qfx gtyfsfx vzj xj mfgífs ij jhmfw f
qtx wtytx hzjwtx.

Yjsíf jq hzwf ij qfx rfstx f its Vznotyj, jq hzfq, hwjdjsit vzj df mfgíf
fhfgfit qf fajsyzwf, d vzj xj mfqqfgf ijqfsyj ij qf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf, xj
mnshó ij wtinqqfx ijqfsyj ijq hzwf, inhnjsit:

-Gnjs uzjij qf azjxywf lwfsijef, fqyf d kfrtxf xjñtwf, ananw, ij mtd ráx,
xjlzwf vzj qj uzjif mfhjw rfq jxyf rfq sfhnif hwnfyzwf; d dt yfrgnés, ij
mtd ráx, xtd vznyt ij qf ufqfgwf vzj tx in, uzjx, hts jq fdzif ijq fqyt
Intx d hts jq kfatw ij fvzjqqf utw vznjs dt anat d wjxunwt, yfs gnjs qf mj
hzruqnit.

-¿St qt inoj dt? -inot tdjsit jxyt Xfshmt-. Xí vzj st jxyfgf dt gtwwfhmt:
¡rnwfi xn ynjsj uzjxyt df js xfq rn frt fq lnlfsyj! ¡Hnjwytx xts qtx ytwtx:
rn htsifit jxyá ij rtqij!

¿Vznés st mfgíf ij wjíw hts qtx inxufwfyjx ij qtx itx, frt d rtet? Ytitx
wjífs xnst jq ajsyjwt, vzj xj ifgf f Xfyfsáx. Ujwt, js kns, yfsyt mnhnjwts
jq gfwgjwt, Hfwijsnt d jq hzwf vzj, hts st utht ywfgfot, injwts hts its
Vznotyj js qf hfrf, jq hzfq xj vzjió itwrnit, hts rzjxywfx ij lwfsiíxnrt
hfsxfshnt. Ijoáwtsqj itwrnw, d xfqnéwtsxj fq utwyfq ij qf ajsyf f htsxtqfw
f Xfshmt Ufsef ij st mfgjw mfqqfit qf hfgjef ijq lnlfsyj; fzsvzj ráx
yzanjwts vzj mfhjw js fuqfhfw fq ajsyjwt, vzj jxyfgf ijxjxujwfit utw qf
wjujsynsf rzjwyj ij xzx hzjwtx. D qf ajsyjwf ijhíf js ate d js lwnyt:
-Js rfq uzsyt d js mtwf rjslzfif jsywó js rn hfxf jxyj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj,
vzj szshf rnx totx qj mzgnjwfs anxyt, vzj yfs hfwt rj hzjxyf. Qf aje ufxfif
xj kzj hts jq htxyt ij zsf sthmj, ij hjsf, hfrf, ufof d hjgfif, ufwf éq d
ufwf xz jxhzijwt, d zs wthís d zs ozrjsyt, inhnjsit vzj jwf hfgfqqjwt
fajsyzwjwt (vzj rfqf ajsyzwf qj ié Intx f éq d f hzfsytx fajsyzwjwtx mfd js
jq rzsit) d vzj utw jxyt st jxyfgf tgqnlfit f uflfw sfif, vzj fxí jxyfgf
jxhwnyt js qtx fwfshjqjx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyjxhf. D fmtwf, utw xz
wjxujyt, anst jxytywt xjñtw d rj qqjaó rn htqf, d márjqf azjqyt hts ráx ij
itx hzfwynqqtx ij ifñt, ytif ujqfif, vzj st uzjij xjwanw ufwf qt vzj qf
vznjwj rn rfwnit. D, utw kns d wjrfyj ij ytit, wtrujwrj rnx hzjwtx d
ijwwfrfwrj rn anst; vzj ijwwfrfif qj ajf dt xz xfslwj. ¡Uzjx st xj unjsxj;
vzj, utw qtx mzjxtx ij rn ufiwj d utw jq xnlqt ij rn rfiwj, xn st rj qt mfs
ij uflfw zs hzfwyt xtgwj tywt, t st rj qqfrfwíf dt htrt rj qqfrt sn xjwíf
mnof ij vznjs xtd!

Jxyfx d tywfx wfetsjx yfqjx ijhíf qf ajsyjwf hts lwfsij jstot, d fdziágfqf
xz gzjsf hwnfif Rfwnytwsjx. Qf mnof hfqqfgf, d ij hzfsit js hzfsit xj
xtswjíf. Jq hzwf qt xtxjló ytit, uwtrjynjsit ij xfynxkfhjwqjx xz uéwinif qt
rjotw vzj uzinjxj, fxí ij qtx hzjwtx htrt ijq anst, d uwnshnufqrjsyj ijq
rjstxhfgt ij qf htqf, ij vznjs yfsyf hzjsyf mfhífs. Itwtyjf htsxtqó f
Xfshmt Ufsef inhnésitqj vzj hfif d hzfsit vzj ufwjhnjxj mfgjw xnit ajwifi
vzj xz frt mzgnjxj ijxhfgjefit fq lnlfsyj, qj uwtrjyíf, js anésitxj
ufhíknhf js xz wjnst, ij ifwqj jq rjotw htsifit vzj js éq mzgnjxj.
Htsxtqóxj hts jxyt Xfshmt, d fxjlzwó f qf uwnshjxf vzj yzanjxj utw hnjwyt
vzj éq mfgíf anxyt qf hfgjef ijq lnlfsyj, d vzj, utw ráx xjñfx, yjsíf zsf
gfwgf vzj qj qqjlfgf f qf hnsyzwf; d vzj xn st ufwjhíf, jwf utwvzj ytit
hzfsyt js fvzjqqf hfxf ufxfgf jwf utw aíf ij jshfsyfrjsyt, htrt éq qt mfgíf
uwtgfit tywf aje vzj mfgíf utxfit js jqqf. Itwtyjf inot vzj fxí qt hwjíf, d
vzj st yzanjxj ujsf, vzj ytit xj mfwíf gnjs d xzhjijwíf f ujinw ij gthf.
Xtxjlfitx ytitx, jq hzwf vznxt fhfgfw ij qjjw qf stajqf, utwvzj ant vzj
kfqyfgf utht. Hfwijsnt, Itwtyjf d ytitx qtx ijráx qj wtlfwts qf fhfgfxj.
Éq, vzj f ytitx vznxt ifw lzxyt, d utw jq vzj éq yjsíf ij qjjwqf, uwtxnlznó
jq hzjsyt, vzj fxí ijhíf:

«Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, utw qf xfynxkfhnós vzj Fsxjqrt yjsíf ij qf gtsifi ij
Hfrnqf, anaíf zsf anif htsyjsyf d ijxhznifif, d Hfrnqf, ij nsizxywnf, mfhíf
rfq wtxywt f Qtyfwnt, utwvzj Fsxjqrt jsyjsinjxj fq wjaéx ij qf atqzsyfi vzj
qj yjsíf; d, ufwf ráx htsknwrfhnós ij xz mjhmt, uninó qnhjshnf Qtyfwnt ufwf
st ajsnw f xz hfxf, uzjx hqfwfrjsyj xj rtxywfgf qf ujxfizrgwj vzj hts xz
anxyf Hfrnqf wjhjgíf; rfx jq jslfñfit Fsxjqrt qj inot vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf
yfq mnhnjxj. D, ijxyf rfsjwf, utw rnq rfsjwfx jwf Fsxjqrt jq kfgwnhfitw ij
xz ijxmtswf, hwjdjsit vzj qt jwf ij xz lzxyt.

»Js jxyt, jq vzj yjsíf Qjtsjqf ij ajwxj hzfqnknhfif, st ij hts xzx frtwjx,
qqjló f yfsyt vzj, xns rnwfw f tywf htxf, xj ngf ywfx éq f xzjqyf wnjsif,
knfif js vzj xz xjñtwf qf jshzgwíf, d fzs qf fiajwyíf ijq rtit vzj hts utht
wjhjqt uzinjxj utsjwqj js jojhzhnós. Js kns, zsf sthmj xnsynó Fsxjqrt ufxtx
js jq futxjsyt ij Qjtsjqf, d, vzjwnjsit jsywfw f ajw vznés qtx ifgf, xnsynó
vzj qj ijyjsífs qf uzjwyf, htxf vzj qj uzxt ráx atqzsyfi ij fgwnwqf; d
yfsyf kzjwef mnet, vzj qf fgwnó, d jsywó ijsywt f ynjrut vzj ant vzj zs
mtrgwj xfqyfgf utw qf ajsyfsf f qf hfqqj; d, fhzinjsit hts uwjxyjef f
fqhfsefwqj t htsthjwqj, st uzit htsxjlznw qt zst sn qt tywt, utwvzj Qjtsjqf
xj fgwfeó hts éq, inhnésitqj:

»-Xtxnélfyj, xjñtw rít, d st yj fqgtwtyjx, sn xnlfx fq vzj ij fvzí xfqyó;
jx htxf ríf, d yfsyt, vzj jx rn jxutxt.

»St qt vznxt hwjjw Fsxjqrt; fsyjx, hnjlt ij jstot, xfhó qf iflf d vznxt
mjwnw f Qjtsjqf, inhnésitqj vzj qj inojxj qf ajwifi, xn st, vzj qf rfyfwíf.
Jqqf, hts jq rnjit, xns xfgjw qt vzj xj ijhíf, qj inot:

»-St rj rfyjx, xjñtw, vzj dt yj inwé htxfx ij ráx nrutwyfshnf ij qfx vzj
uzjijx nrflnsfw.

»-Inqfx qzjlt -inot Fsxjqrt-; xn st, rzjwyf jwjx.

»-Utw fmtwf xjwá nrutxngqj -inot Qjtsjqf-, xjlús jxytd ij yzwgfif; iéofrj
mfxyf rfñfsf, vzj jsytshjx xfgwáx ij rí qt vzj yj mf ij firnwfw; d jxyá
xjlzwt vzj jq vzj xfqyó utw jxyf ajsyfsf jx zs rfshjgt ijxyf hnzifi, vzj rj
mf ifit qf rfst ij xjw rn jxutxt.

»Xtxjlóxj hts jxyt Fsxjqrt d vznxt flzfwifw jq yéwrnst vzj xj qj ujiíf,
utwvzj st ujsxfgf tíw htxf vzj htsywf Hfrnqf kzjxj, utw jxyfw ij xz gtsifi
yfs xfynxkjhmt d xjlzwt; d fxí, xj xfqnó ijq futxjsyt d ijoó jshjwwfif js
éq f Qjtsjqf, inhnésitqj vzj ij fqqí st xfqiwíf mfxyf vzj qj inojxj qt vzj
yjsíf vzj ijhnwqj.

»Kzj qzjlt f ajw f Hfrnqf d f ijhnwqj, htrt qj inot, ytit fvzjqqt vzj hts
xz itshjqqf qj mfgíf ufxfit, d qf ufqfgwf vzj qj mfgíf ifit ij ijhnwqj
lwfsijx htxfx d ij nrutwyfshnf. Xn xj yzwgó Hfrnqf t st, st mfd ufwf vzé
ijhnwqt, utwvzj kzj yfsyt jq yjrtw vzj htgwó, hwjdjsit ajwifijwfrjsyj -d
jwf ij hwjjw- vzj Qjtsjqf mfgíf ij ijhnw f Fsxjqrt ytit qt vzj xfgíf ij xz
uthf kj, vzj st yzat ásnrt ufwf jxujwfw xn xz xtxujhmf xfqíf kfqxf t st. D
fvzjqqf rjxrf sthmj, hzfsit qj ufwjhnó vzj Fsxjqrt itwríf, ozsyó qfx
rjotwjx otdfx vzj yjsíf d fqlzstx insjwtx, d, xns xjw ij sfinj xjsynif,
xfqnó ij hfxf d xj kzj f qf ij Qtyfwnt, f vznjs htsyó qt vzj ufxfgf, d qj
uninó vzj qf uzxnjxj js htgwt, t vzj xj fzxjsyfxjs qtx itx itsij ij Fsxjqrt
uzinjxjs jxyfw xjlzwtx. Qf htskzxnós js vzj Hfrnqf uzxt f Qtyfwnt kzj yfq,
vzj st qj xfgíf wjxutsijw ufqfgwf, sn rjstx xfgíf wjxtqajwxj js qt vzj
mfwíf.

»Js kns, fhtwió ij qqjafw f Hfrnqf f zs rtsjxyjwnt, js vznjs jwf uwntwf zsf
xz mjwrfsf. Htsxnsynó Hfrnqf js jqqt, d, hts qf uwjxyjef vzj jq hfxt ujiíf,
qf qqjaó Qtyfwnt d qf ijoó js jq rtsjxyjwnt, d éq, fsxnrjxrt, xj fzxjsyó
qzjlt ij qf hnzifi, xns ifw ufwyj f sfinj ij xz fzxjshnf.

»Hzfsit frfsjhnó, xns jhmfw ij ajw Fsxjqrt vzj Hfrnqf kfqyfgf ij xz qfit,
hts jq ijxjt vzj yjsíf ij xfgjw qt vzj Qjtsjqf vzjwíf ijhnwqj, xj qjafsyó d
kzj fitsij qf mfgíf ijofit jshjwwfif. Fgwnó d jsywó js jq futxjsyt, ujwt st
mfqqó js éq f Qjtsjqf: xóqt mfqqó uzjxyfx zsfx xágfsfx fñzififx f qf
ajsyfsf, nsinhnt d xjñfq vzj utw fqqí xj mfgíf ijxhtqlfit j nit. Atqanó
qzjlt rzd ywnxyj f ijhíwxjqt f Hfrnqf, d, st mfqqásitqf js qf hfrf sn js
ytif qf hfxf, vzjió fxtrgwfit.Uwjlzsyó f qtx hwnfitx ij hfxf utw jqqf, ujwt
sfinj qj xzut ifw wfeós ij qt vzj ujiíf.

»Fhjwyó fhfxt, fsifsit f gzxhfw f Hfrnqf, vzj ant xzx htkwjx fgnjwytx d vzj
ijqqtx kfqyfgfs qfx ráx ij xzx otdfx, d hts jxyt fhfgó ij hfjw js qf hzjsyf
ij xz ijxlwfhnf, d js vzj st jwf Qjtsjqf qf hfzxf ij xz ijxajsyzwf. D, fsxí
htrt jxyfgf, xns fhfgfwxj ij ajxynw, ywnxyj d ujsxfynat, kzj f ifw hzjsyf
ij xz ijxinhmf f xz frnlt Qtyfwnt. Rfx, hzfsit st qj mfqqó, d xzx hwnfitx
qj inojwts vzj fvzjqqf sthmj mfgíf kfqyfit ij hfxf d mfgíf qqjafit htsxnlt
ytitx qtx insjwtx vzj yjsíf, ujsxó ujwijw jq oznhnt. D, ufwf fhfgfw ij
htshqznw hts ytit, atqanésitxj f xz hfxf, st mfqqó js jqqf snslzst ij
hzfsytx hwnfitx sn hwnfifx yjsíf, xnst qf hfxf ijxnjwyf d xtqf.

»St xfgíf vzé ujsxfw, vzé ijhnw, sn vzé mfhjw, d utht f utht xj qj ngf
atqanjsit jq oznhnt. Htsyjruqágfxj d rnwágfxj js zs nsxyfsyj xns rzojw, xns
frnlt d xns hwnfitx; ijxfrufwfit, f xz ufwjhjw, ijq hnjqt vzj qj hzgwíf, d
xtgwj ytit xns mtswf, utwvzj js qf kfqyf ij Hfrnqf ant xz ujwinhnós.

»Wjxtqanóxj, js kns, f hfgt ij zsf lwfs unjef, ij nwxj f qf fqijf ij xz
frnlt, itsij mfgíf jxyfit hzfsit int qzlfw f vzj xj rfvznsfxj ytif fvzjqqf
ijxajsyzwf. Hjwwó qfx uzjwyfx ij xz hfxf, xzgnó f hfgfqqt, d hts ijxrfdfit
fqnjsyt xj uzxt js hfrnst; d, fujsfx mzgt fsifit qf rnyfi, hzfsit, fhtxfit
ij xzx ujsxfrnjsytx, qj kzj ktwetxt fujfwxj d fwwjsifw xz hfgfqqt f zs
áwgtq, f hzdt ywtsht xj ijoó hfjw, ifsit ynjwstx d itqtwtxtx xzxunwtx, d
fqqí xj jxyzat mfxyf hfxn vzj fsthmjhíf; d fvzjqqf mtwf ant vzj ajsíf zs
mtrgwj f hfgfqqt ij qf hnzifi, d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj xfqzifit, qj uwjlzsyó
vzé szjafx mfgíf js Kqtwjshnf. Jq hnzififst wjxutsinó:

»-Qfx ráx jxywfñfx vzj rzhmtx iífx mf xj mfs tíit js jqqf; utwvzj xj inhj
uúgqnhfrjsyj vzj Qtyfwnt, fvzjq lwfsij frnlt ij Fsxjqrt jq wnht, vzj anaíf
f Xfs Ozfs, xj qqjaó jxyf sthmj f Hfrnqf, rzojw ij Fsxjqrt, jq hzfq yfrutht
ufwjhj. Ytit jxyt mf inhmt zsf hwnfif ij Hfrnqf, vzj fsthmj qf mfqqó jq
ltgjwsfitw ijxhtqlásitxj hts zsf xágfsf utw qfx ajsyfsfx ij qf hfxf ij
Fsxjqrt. Js jkjyt, st xé uzsyzfqrjsyj hórt ufxó jq sjlthnt; xóqt xé vzj
ytif qf hnzifi jxyá firnwfif ijxyj xzhjxt, utwvzj st xj utiíf jxujwfw yfq
mjhmt ij qf rzhmf d kfrnqnfw frnxyfi ij qtx itx, vzj inhjs vzj jwf yfsyf,
vzj qtx qqfrfgfs qtx itx frnltx.

»-¿Xágjxj, utw ajsyzwf -inot Fsxjqrt-, jq hfrnst vzj qqjafs Qtyfwnt d
Hfrnqf?

»-Sn utw unjsxt -inot jq hnzififst-, uzjxyt vzj jq ltgjwsfitw mf zxfit ij
rzhmf inqnljshnf js gzxhfwqtx

»-F Intx afnx, xjñtw -inot Fsxjqrt.

»-Hts Éq vzjiénx -wjxutsinó jq hnzififst, d kzjxj.

»Hts yfs ijxinhmfifx szjafx, hfxn hfxn qqjló f yéwrnstx Fsxjqrt, st xóqt ij
ujwijw jq oznhnt, xnst ij fhfgfw qf anif. Qjafsyóxj htrt uzit d qqjló f
hfxf ij xz frnlt, vzj fús st xfgíf xz ijxlwfhnf; rfx, htrt qj ant qqjlfw
frfwnqqt, htsxzrnit d xjht, jsyjsinó vzj ij fqlús lwfaj rfq ajsíf kfynlfit.
Uninó qzjlt Fsxjqrt vzj qj fhtxyfxjs, d vzj qj injxjs fijwjet ij jxhwngnw.
Míetxj fxí, d ijoáwtsqj fhtxyfit d xtqt, utwvzj éq fxí qt vznxt, d fzs vzj
qj hjwwfxjs qf uzjwyf. Anésitxj, uzjx, xtqt, htrjseó f hfwlfw yfsyt qf
nrflnsfhnós ij xz ijxajsyzwf, vzj hqfwfrjsyj htsthnó vzj xj qj ngf fhfgfsit
qf anif; d fxí, twijsó ij ijofw stynhnf ij qf hfzxf ij xz jxywfñf rzjwyj;
d, htrjsefsit f jxhwngnw, fsyjx vzj fhfgfxj ij utsjw ytit qt vzj vzjwíf, qj
kfqyó jq fqnjsyt d ijoó qf anif js qfx rfstx ijq itqtw vzj qj hfzxó xz
hzwntxnifi nrujwynsjsyj.

»Anjsit jq xjñtw ij hfxf vzj jwf df yfwij d vzj Fsxjqrt st qqfrfgf, fhtwió
ij jsywfw f xfgjw xn ufxfgf fijqfsyj xz nsinxutxnhnós, d mfqqóqj yjsinit
gthf fgfot, qf rnyfi ijq hzjwut js qf hfrf d qf tywf rnyfi xtgwj jq gzkjyj,
xtgwj jq hzfq jxyfgf hts jq ufujq jxhwnyt d fgnjwyt, d éq yjsíf fús qf
uqzrf js qf rfst. Qqjlóxj jq mzéxuji f éq, mfgnésitqj qqfrfit uwnrjwt; d,
ywfgásitqj utw qf rfst, anjsit vzj st qj wjxutsiíf d mfqqásitqj kwít, ant
vzj jxyfgf rzjwyt. Firnwóxj d htsltoóxj js lwfs rfsjwf, d qqfró f qf ljsyj
ij hfxf ufwf vzj anjxjs qf ijxlwfhnf f Fsxjqrt xzhjinif; d, knsfqrjsyj,
qjdó jq ufujq, vzj htsthnó vzj ij xz rjxrf rfst jxyfgf jxhwnyt, jq hzfq
htsyjsíf jxyfx wfetsjx:

Zs sjhnt j nrujwynsjsyj ijxjt rj vznyó qf anif. Xn qfx szjafx ij rn rzjwyj
qqjlfwjs f qtx tíitx ij Hfrnqf, xjuf vzj dt qf ujwitst, utwvzj st jxyfgf
jqqf tgqnlfif f mfhjw rnqflwtx, sn dt yjsíf sjhjxnifi ij vzjwjw vzj jqqf
qtx mnhnjxj; d, uzjx dt kzn jq kfgwnhfitw ij rn ijxmtswf, st mfd ufwf
vzé...

»Mfxyf fvzí jxhwngnó Fsxjqrt, utw itsij xj jhmó ij ajw vzj js fvzjq uzsyt,
xns utijw fhfgfw qf wfeós, xj qj fhfgó qf anif. Tywt iíf int fanxt xz frnlt
f qtx ufwnjsyjx ij Fsxjqrt ij xz rzjwyj, qtx hzfqjx df xfgífs xz ijxlwfhnf,
d jq rtsjxyjwnt itsij Hfrnqf jxyfgf, hfxn js jq yéwrnst ij fhtrufñfw f xz
jxutxt js fvzjq ktwetxt anfoj, st utw qfx szjafx ijq rzjwyt jxutxt, rfx utw
qfx vzj xzut ijq fzxjsyj frnlt. Iíhjxj vzj, fzsvzj xj ant anzif, st vznxt
xfqnw ijq rtsjxyjwnt, sn, rjstx, mfhjw uwtkjxnós ij rtsof, mfxyf vzj, st ij
fqqí f rzhmtx iífx, qj ansnjwts szjafx vzj Qtyfwnt mfgíf rzjwyt js zsf
gfyfqqf vzj js fvzjq ynjrut int rtsxnzw ij Qfzywjh fq Lwfs Hfunyás Ltsefqt
Kjwsásije ij Hówitgf js jq wjnst ij Sáutqjx, itsij mfgíf nit f ufwfw jq
yfwij fwwjujsynit frnlt; qt hzfq xfgnit utw Hfrnqf, mnet uwtkjxnós, d fhfgó
js gwjajx iífx qf anif f qfx wnlzwtxfx rfstx ij ywnxyjefx d rjqfshtqífx.
Éxyj kzj jq kns vzj yzanjwts ytitx, sfhnit ij zs yfs ijxfynsfit uwnshnunt.»

-Gnjs -inot jq hzwf- rj ufwjhj jxyf stajqf, ujwt st rj uzjit ujwxzfinw vzj
jxyt xjf ajwifi; d xn jx knslnit, knslnó rfq jq fzytw, utwvzj st xj uzjij
nrflnsfw vzj mfdf rfwnit yfs sjhnt vzj vznjwf mfhjw yfs htxytxf jcujwnjshnf
htrt Fsxjqrt. Xn jxyj hfxt xj uzxnjwf jsywj zs lfqás d zsf ifrf, uzinéwfxj
qqjafw, ujwt jsywj rfwnit d rzojw, fqlt ynjsj ijq nrutxngqj; d, js qt vzj
ythf fq rtit ij htsyfwqj, st rj ijxhtsyjsyf.





Hfuíyzqt CCCAN. Vzj ywfyf ij qf gwfaf d ijxhtrzsfq gfyfqqf vzj its Vznotyj
yzat hts zstx hzjwtx ij anst ynsyt, hts tywtx wfwtx xzhjxtx vzj js qf ajsyf
qj xzhjinjwts


Jxyfsit js jxyt, jq ajsyjwt, vzj jxyfgf f qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, inot:

-Jxyf vzj anjsj jx zsf mjwrtxf ywtuf ij mzéxujijx: xn jqqtx ufwfs fvzí,
lfzijfrzx yjsjrtx.

-¿Vzé ljsyj jx? -inot Hfwijsnt.

-Hzfywt mtrgwjx -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt- anjsjs f hfgfqqt, f qf onsjyf, hts
qfsefx d fifwlfx, d ytitx hts fsynkfhjx sjlwtx; d ozsyt hts jqqtx anjsj zsf
rzojw ajxynif ij gqfsht, js zs xnqqós, fsxnrjxrt hzgnjwyt jq wtxywt, d
tywtx itx rtetx ij f unj.

-¿Anjsjs rzd hjwhf? -uwjlzsyó jq hzwf.

-Yfs hjwhf -wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt-, vzj df qqjlfs.

Tdjsit jxyt Itwtyjf, xj hzgwnó jq wtxywt, d Hfwijsnt xj jsywó js jq
futxjsyt ij its Vznotyj; d hfxn st mfgífs yjsnit qzlfw ufwf jxyt, hzfsit
jsywfwts js qf ajsyf ytitx qtx vzj jq ajsyjwt mfgíf inhmt; d, fujásitxj qtx
hzfywt ij f hfgfqqt, vzj ij rzd ljsynq yfqqj d inxutxnhnós jwfs, kzjwts f
fujfw f qf rzojw vzj js jq xnqqós ajsíf; d, ytrásitqf zst ijqqtx js xzx
gwfetx, qf xjsyó js zsf xnqqf vzj jxyfgf f qf jsywfif ijq futxjsyt itsij
Hfwijsnt xj mfgíf jxhtsinit. Js ytit jxyj ynjrut, sn jqqf sn jqqtx xj
mfgífs vznyfit qtx fsynkfhjx, sn mfgqfit ufqfgwf fqlzsf; xóqt vzj, fq
xjsyfwxj qf rzojw js qf xnqqf, int zs uwtkzsit xzxunwt d ijoó hfjw qtx
gwfetx, htrt ujwxtsf jskjwrf d ijxrfdfif. Qtx rtetx ij f unj qqjafwts qtx
hfgfqqtx f qf hfgfqqjwnef.

Anjsit jxyt jq hzwf, ijxjtxt ij xfgjw vzé ljsyj jwf fvzjqqf vzj hts yfq
ywfoj d yfq xnqjshnt jxyfgf, xj kzj itsij jxyfgfs qtx rtetx, d f zst ijqqtx
qj uwjlzsyó qt vzj df ijxjfgf; jq hzfq qj wjxutsinó:

-Ufwinje, xjñtw, dt st xfgwé ijhnwtx vzé ljsyj xjf éxyf; xóqt xé vzj
rzjxywf xjw rzd uwnshnufq, jxujhnfqrjsyj fvzjq vzj qqjló f ytrfw js xzx
gwfetx f fvzjqqf xjñtwf vzj mfgénx anxyt; d jxyt iíltqt utwvzj ytitx qtx
ijráx qj ynjsjs wjxujyt, d st xj mfhj tywf htxf ráx ij qf vzj éq twijsf d
rfsif.

-D qf xjñtwf, ¿vznés jx? -uwjlzsyó jq hzwf.

-Yfrutht xfgwé ijhnw jxt -wjxutsinó jq rtet-, utwvzj js ytit jq hfrnst st
qf mj anxyt jq wtxywt; xzxunwfw xí qf mj tíit rzhmfx ajhjx, d ifw zstx
ljrnitx vzj ufwjhj vzj hts hfif zst ijqqtx vznjwj ifw jq fqrf. D st jx ij
rfwfanqqfw vzj st xjufrtx ráx ij qt vzj mfgjrtx inhmt, utwvzj rn htrufñjwt
d dt st mf ráx ij itx iífx vzj qtx fhtrufñfrtx; utwvzj, mfgnésitqtx
jshtsywfit js jq hfrnst, stx wtlfwts d ujwxzfinjwts vzj ansnéxjrtx hts
jqqtx mfxyf jq Fsifqzhíf, tkwjhnésitxj f ufláwstxqt rzd gnjs.

-¿D mfgénx tíit strgwfw f fqlzst ijqqtx? -uwjlzsyó jq hzwf.

-St, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó jq rtet-, utwvzj ytitx hfrnsfs hts yfsyt
xnqjshnt vzj jx rfwfanqqf, utwvzj st xj tdj jsywj jqqtx tywf htxf vzj qtx
xzxunwtx d xtqqtetx ij qf utgwj xjñtwf, vzj stx rzjajs f qáxynrf; d xns
izif yjsjrtx hwjíit vzj jqqf af ktwefif itsijvznjwf vzj af, d, xjlús xj
uzjij htqjlnw utw xz mágnyt, jqqf jx rtsof, t af f xjwqt, vzj jx qt ráx
hnjwyt, d vzneá utwvzj st qj ijgj ij sfhjw ij atqzsyfi jq rtsoít, af
ywnxyj, htrt ufwjhj.

-Ytit utiwíf xjw -inot jq hzwf.

D, ijoásitqtx, xj atqanó fitsij jxyfgf Itwtyjf, qf hzfq, htrt mfgíf tíit
xzxunwfw f qf jrgtefif, rtanif ij sfyzwfq htrufxnós, xj qqjló f jqqf d qj
inot:

-¿Vzé rfq xjsyíx, xjñtwf ríf? Rnwfi xn jx fqlzst ij vznjs qfx rzojwjx
xzjqjs yjsjw zxt d jcujwnjshnf ij hzwfwqj, vzj ij rn ufwyj tx tkwjeht zsf
gzjsf atqzsyfi ij xjwanwtx.

F ytit jxyt hfqqfgf qf qfxynrfif xjñtwf; d, fzsvzj Itwtyjf ytwsó hts
rfdtwjx tkwjhnrnjsytx, ytifaíf xj jxyfgf js xz xnqjshnt, mfxyf vzj qqjló jq
hfgfqqjwt jrgtefit vzj inot jq rtet vzj qtx ijráx tgjijhífs, d inot f
Itwtyjf:

-St tx hfsxénx, xjñtwf, js tkwjhjw sfif f jxf rzojw, utwvzj ynjsj utw
htxyzrgwj ij st flwfijhjw htxf vzj utw jqqf xj mfhj, sn uwthzwénx vzj tx
wjxutsif, xn st vzjwénx tíw fqlzsf rjsynwf ij xz gthf.

-Ofráx qf inoj -inot f jxyf xfeós qf vzj mfxyf fqqí mfgíf jxyfit hfqqfsit-;
fsyjx, utw xjw yfs ajwifijwf d yfs xns ywfefx rjsynwtxfx, rj ajt fmtwf js
yfsyf ijxajsyzwf; d ijxyt atx rjxrt vznjwt vzj xjánx jq yjxynlt, uzjx rn
uzwf ajwifi tx mfhj f atx xjw kfqxt d rjsynwtxt.

Tdó jxyfx wfetsjx Hfwijsnt gnjs hqfwf d inxynsyfrjsyj, htrt vznjs jxyfgf
yfs ozsyt ij vznjs qfx ijhíf vzj xtqf qf uzjwyf ijq futxjsyt ij its Vznotyj
jxyfgf js rjint; d, fxí htrt qfx tdó, ifsit zsf lwfs ate inot:

-¡Aáqlfrj Intx! ¿Vzé jx jxyt vzj tnlt? ¿Vzé ate jx jxyf vzj mf qqjlfit f
rnx tíitx?

Atqanó qf hfgjef f jxytx lwnytx fvzjqqf xjñtwf, ytif xtgwjxfqyfif, d, st
anjsit vznés qfx ifgf, xj qjafsyó js unj d kzjxj f jsywfw js jq futxjsyt;
qt hzfq anxyt utw jq hfgfqqjwt, qf ijyzat, xns ijofwqf rtajw zs ufxt. F
jqqf, hts qf yzwgfhnós d ijxfxtxnjlt, xj qj hfdó jq yfkjyás hts vzj ywfíf
hzgnjwyt jq wtxywt, d ijxhzgwnó zsf mjwrtxzwf nshtrufwfgqj d zs wtxywt
rnqflwtxt, fzsvzj ijxhtqtwnit d fxtrgwfit, utwvzj hts qtx totx fsifgf
wtijfsit ytitx qtx qzlfwjx itsij fqhfsefgf hts qf anxyf, hts yfsyt fmísht,
vzj ufwjhíf ujwxtsf kzjwf ij oznhnt; hzdfx xjñfqjx, xns xfgjw utw vzé qfx
mfhíf, uzxnjwts lwfs qáxynrf js Itwtyjf d js hzfsytx qf rnwfgfs. Yjsífqf jq
hfgfqqjwt kzjwyjrjsyj fxnif utw qfx jxufqifx, d, utw jxyfw yfs thzufit js
yjsjwqf, st uzit fhzinw f fqefwxj jq jrgtet, vzj xj qj hfíf, htrt, js
jkjyt, xj qj hfdó ijq ytit; d, fqefsit qtx totx Itwtyjf, vzj fgwfefif hts
qf xjñtwf jxyfgf, ant vzj jq vzj fgwfefif fsxnrjxrt qf yjsíf jwf xz jxutxt
its Kjwsfsit; d, fujsfx qj mzgt htsthnit, hzfsit, fwwtofsit ij qt ísynrt ij
xzx jsywfñfx zs qzjslt d ywnxyíxnrt ''¡fd!'', xj ijoó hfjw ij jxufqifx
ijxrfdfif; d, f st mfqqfwxj fqqí ozsyt jq gfwgjwt, vzj qf wjhtlnó js qtx
gwfetx, jqqf injwf htsxnlt js jq xzjqt.

Fhzinó qzjlt jq hzwf f vznyfwqj jq jrgtet, ufwf jhmfwqj flzf js jq wtxywt,
d fxí htrt qf ijxhzgwnó qf htsthnó its Kjwsfsit, vzj jwf jq vzj jxyfgf
fgwfefit hts qf tywf, d vzjió htrt rzjwyt js ajwqf; ujwt st utwvzj ijofxj,
hts ytit jxyt, ij yjsjw f Qzxhnsif, vzj jwf qf vzj uwthzwfgf xtqyfwxj ij
xzx gwfetx; qf hzfq mfgíf htsthnit js jq xzxunwt f Hfwijsnt, d éq qf mfgíf
htsthnit f jqqf. Tdó fxnrjxrt Hfwijsnt jq ¡fd! vzj int Itwtyjf hzfsit xj
hfdó ijxrfdfif, d, hwjdjsit vzj jwf xz Qzxhnsif, xfqnó ijq futxjsyt
ijxufatwnit, d qt uwnrjwt vzj ant kzj f its Kjwsfsit, vzj yjsíf fgwfefif f
Qzxhnsif. Yfrgnés its Kjwsfsit htsthnó qzjlt f Hfwijsnt; d ytitx ywjx,
Qzxhnsif, Hfwijsnt d Itwtyjf, vzjifwts rzitx d xzxujsxtx, hfxn xns xfgjw qt
vzj qjx mfgíf fhtsyjhnit.

Hfqqfgfs ytitx d rnwágfsxj ytitx: Itwtyjf f its Kjwsfsit, its Kjwsfsit f
Hfwijsnt, Hfwijsnt f Qzxhnsif d Qzxhnsif f Hfwijsnt. Rfx vznjs uwnrjwt
wtrunó jq xnqjshnt kzj Qzxhnsif, mfgqfsit f its Kjwsfsit ijxyf rfsjwf:

-Ijofirj, xjñtw its Kjwsfsit, utw qt vzj ijgénx f xjw vznjs xtnx, df vzj
utw tywt wjxujyt st qt mflánx; ijofirj qqjlfw fq rzwt ij vznjs dt xtd
djiwf, fq fwwnrt ij vznjs st rj mfs utinit fufwyfw azjxywfx
nrutwyzsfhntsjx, azjxywfx frjsfefx, azjxywfx uwtrjxfx sn azjxywfx iáinafx.
Styfi hórt jq hnjqt, utw ijxzxfitx d f stxtywtx jshzgnjwytx hfrnstx, rj mf
uzjxyt f rn ajwifijwt jxutxt ijqfsyj. D gnjs xfgénx utw rnq htxytxfx
jcujwnjshnfx vzj xtqf qf rzjwyj kzjwf gfxyfsyj ufwf gtwwfwqj ij rn rjrtwnf.
Xjfs, uzjx, ufwyj yfs hqfwtx ijxjslfñtx ufwf vzj atqaánx, df vzj st utiánx
mfhjw tywf htxf, jq frtw js wfgnf, qf atqzsyfi js ijxujhmt, d fhfgfirj hts
éq qf anif; vzj, htrt dt qf wnsif ijqfsyj ij rn gzjs jxutxt, qf ifwé utw
gnjs jruqjfif: vzneá hts rn rzjwyj vzjifwá xfynxkjhmt ij qf kj vzj qj
rfsyzaj mfxyf jq úqynrt ywfshj ij qf anif.

Mfgíf js jxyj jsywjyfsyt azjqyt Itwtyjf js xí, d mfgíf jxyfit jxhzhmfsit
ytifx qfx wfetsjx vzj Qzxhnsif inot, utw qfx hzfqjx anst js htsthnrnjsyt ij
vznés jqqf jwf; vzj, anjsit vzj its Kjwsfsit fús st qf ijofgf ij qtx
gwfetx, sn wjxutsiíf f xzx wfetsjx, jxktweásitxj qt ráx vzj uzit, xj
qjafsyó d xj kzj f mnshfw ij wtinqqfx f xzx unjx; d, ijwwfrfsit rzhmf
hfsynifi ij mjwrtxfx d qfxynrjwfx qálwnrfx, fxí qj htrjseó f ijhnw:

-Xn df st jx, xjñtw rít, vzj qtx wfdtx ijxyj xtq vzj js yzx gwfetx
jhqnuxfit ynjsjx yj vznyfs d tkzxhfs qtx ij yzx totx, df mfgwáx jhmfit ij
ajw vzj qf vzj f yzx unjx jxyá fwwtinqqfif jx qf xns ajsyzwf, mfxyf vzj yú
vznjwfx, d qf ijxinhmfif Itwtyjf. Dt xtd fvzjqqf qfgwfitwf mzrnqij f vznjs
yú, utw yz gtsifi t utw yz lzxyt, vznxnxyj qjafsyfw f qf fqyjef ij utijw
qqfrfwxj yzdf. Xtd qf vzj, jshjwwfif js qtx qírnyjx ij qf mtsjxynifi, ananó
anif htsyjsyf mfxyf vzj, f qfx athjx ij yzx nrutwyzsnifijx, d, fq ufwjhjw,
ozxytx d frtwtxtx xjsynrnjsytx, fgwnó qfx uzjwyfx ij xz wjhfyt d yj jsywjló
qfx qqfajx ij xz qngjwyfi: iáinaf ij yn yfs rfq flwfijhnif, hzfq qt rzjxywf
gnjs hqfwt mfgjw xnit ktwetxt mfqqfwrj js jq qzlfw itsij rj mfqqfx, d ajwyj
dt f yn ij qf rfsjwf vzj yj ajt. Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, st vzjwwíf vzj hfdjxj
js yz nrflnsfhnós ujsxfw vzj mj ajsnit fvzí hts ufxtx ij rn ijxmtswf,
mfgnésitrj ywfíit xóqt qtx ijq itqtw d xjsynrnjsyt ij ajwrj ij yn tqanifif.
Yú vznxnxyj vzj dt kzjxj yzdf, d vznxíxyjqt ij rfsjwf vzj, fzsvzj fmtwf
vznjwfx vzj st qt xjf, st xjwá utxngqj vzj yú ijojx ij xjw rít. Rnwf, xjñtw
rít, vzj uzjij xjw wjhtrujsxf f qf mjwrtxzwf d stgqjef utw vznjs rj ijofx
qf nshtrufwfgqj atqzsyfi vzj yj yjslt. Yú st uzjijx xjw ij qf mjwrtxf
Qzxhnsif, utwvzj jwjx rít, sn jqqf uzjij xjw yzdf, utwvzj jx ij Hfwijsnt; d
ráx káhnq yj xjwá, xn js jqqt rnwfx, wjizhnw yz atqzsyfi f vzjwjw f vznjs
yj fitwf, vzj st jshfrnsfw qf vzj yj fgtwwjhj f vzj gnjs yj vznjwf. Yú
xtqnhnyfxyj rn ijxhznit, yú wtlfxyj f rn jsyjwjef, yú st nlstwfxyj rn
hfqnifi, yú xfgjx gnjs ij qf rfsjwf vzj rj jsywjlzé f ytif yz atqzsyfi: st
yj vzjif qzlfw sn fhtlnif ij qqfrfwyj f jslfñt. D xn jxyt jx fxí, htrt qt
jx, d yú jwjx yfs hwnxynfst htrt hfgfqqjwt, ¿utw vzé utw yfsytx wtijtx
inqfyfx ij mfhjwrj ajsyzwtxf js qtx knsjx, htrt rj mjhnxyj js qtx
uwnshnuntx? D xn st rj vznjwjx utw qf vzj xtd, vzj xtd yz ajwifijwf d
qjlíynrf jxutxf, vznéwjrj, f qt rjstx, d firíyjrj utw yz jxhqfaf; vzj, htrt
dt jxyé js yz utijw, rj yjsiwé utw inhmtxf d gnjs fktwyzsfif. St ujwrnyfx,
hts ijofwrj d ijxfrufwfwrj, vzj xj mflfs d ozsyjs htwwnqqtx js rn ijxmtswf;
st ijx yfs rfqf ajoje f rnx ufiwjx, uzjx st qt rjwjhjs qtx qjfqjx xjwanhntx
vzj, htrt gzjstx afxfqqtx, f qtx yzdtx xnjruwj mfs mjhmt. D xn yj ufwjhj
vzj mfx ij fsnvznqfw yz xfslwj utw rjehqfwqf hts qf ríf, htsxnijwf vzj
uthfx t snslzsf stgqjef mfd js jq rzsit vzj st mfdf htwwnit utw jxyj
hfrnst, d vzj qf vzj xj ytrf ij qfx rzojwjx st jx qf vzj mfhj fq hfxt js
qfx nqzxywjx ijhjsijshnfx; hzfsyt ráx, vzj qf ajwifijwf stgqjef htsxnxyj js
qf anwyzi, d xn éxyf f yn yj kfqyf, sjlásitrj qt vzj yfs ozxyfrjsyj rj
ijgjx, dt vzjifwé hts ráx ajsyfofx ij stgqj vzj qfx vzj yú ynjsjx. Js kns,
xjñtw, qt vzj úqynrfrjsyj yj inlt jx vzj, vznjwfx t st vznjwfx, dt xtd yz
jxutxf: yjxynltx xts yzx ufqfgwfx, vzj st mfs sn ijgjs xjw rjsynwtxfx, xn
df jx vzj yj uwjhnfx ij fvzjqqt utw vzj rj ijxuwjhnfx; yjxynlt xjwá qf
knwrf vzj mnhnxyj, d yjxynlt jq hnjqt, f vznjs yú qqfrfxyj utw yjxynlt ij
qt vzj rj uwtrjyífx. D, hzfsit ytit jxyt kfqyj, yz rnxrf htshnjshnf st mf
ij kfqyfw ij ifw athjx hfqqfsit js rnyfi ij yzx fqjlwífx, atqanjsit utw
jxyf ajwifi vzj yj mj inhmt d yzwgfsit yzx rjotwjx lzxytx d htsyjsytx.

Jxyfx d tywfx wfetsjx inot qf qfxynrfif Itwtyjf, hts yfsyt xjsynrnjsyt d
qálwnrfx, vzj qtx rnxrtx vzj fhtrufñfgfs f its Kjwsfsit, d hzfsytx
uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs, qf fhtrufñfwts js jqqfx. Jxhzhmóqf its Kjwsfsit xns
wjuqnhfqqj ufqfgwf, mfxyf vzj jqqf int kns f qfx xzdfx d uwnshnunt f yfsytx
xtqqtetx d xzxunwtx, vzj gnjs mfgíf ij xjw htwfeós ij gwtshj jq vzj hts
rzjxywfx ij yfsyt itqtw st xj jsyjwsjhnjwf. Rnwásitqf jxyfgf Qzxhnsif, st
rjstx qfxynrfif ij xz xjsynrnjsyt vzj firnwfif ij xz rzhmf inxhwjhnós d
mjwrtxzwf; d, fzsvzj vznxnjwf qqjlfwxj f jqqf d ijhnwqj fqlzsfx ufqfgwfx ij
htsxzjqt, st qf ijofgfs qtx gwfetx ij its Kjwsfsit, vzj fuwjyfif qf yjsífs.
Jq hzfq, qqjst ij htskzxnós d jxufsyt, fq hfgt ij zs gzjs jxufhnt vzj
fyjsyfrjsyj jxyzat rnwfsit f Itwtyjf, fgwnó qtx gwfetx d, ijofsit qngwj f
Qzxhnsif, inot:

-Ajshnxyj, mjwrtxf Itwtyjf, ajshnxyj; utwvzj st jx utxngqj yjsjw ásnrt ufwf
sjlfw yfsyfx ajwifijx ozsyfx.

Hts jq ijxrfdt vzj Qzxhnsif mfgíf yjsnit, fxí htrt qf ijoó its Kjwsfsit,
ngf f hfjw js jq xzjqt; rfx, mfqqásitxj Hfwijsnt fqqí ozsyt, vzj f qfx
jxufqifx ij its Kjwsfsit xj mfgíf uzjxyt utwvzj st qj htsthnjxj,
uwtxzuzjxyt ytit yjrtw d fajsyzwfsit f ytit wnjxlt, fhzinó f xtxyjsjw f
Qzxhnsif, d, htlnésitqf jsywj xzx gwfetx, qj inot:

-Xn jq unfitxt hnjqt lzxyf d vznjwj vzj df yjslfx fqlús ijxhfsxt, qjfq,
knwrj d mjwrtxf xjñtwf ríf, js snslzsf ufwyj hwjt dt vzj qj yjsiwáx ráx
xjlzwt vzj js jxytx gwfetx vzj fmtwf yj wjhngjs, d tywt ynjrut yj
wjhngnjwts, hzfsit qf ktwyzsf vznxt vzj uzinjxj qqfrfwyj ríf.

F jxyfx wfetsjx, uzxt Qzxhnsif js Hfwijsnt qtx totx, d, mfgnjsit htrjsefit
f htsthjwqj, uwnrjwt utw qf ate, d fxjlzwásitxj vzj éq jwf hts qf anxyf,
hfxn kzjwf ij xjsynit d xns yjsjw hzjsyf f snslús mtsjxyt wjxujyt, qj jhmó
qtx gwfetx fq hzjqqt, d, ozsyfsit xz wtxywt hts jq ij Hfwijsnt, qj inot:

-Atx xí, xjñtw rít, xtnx jq ajwifijwt izjñt ijxyf azjxywf hfuynaf, fzsvzj
ráx qt nrunif qf htsywfwnf xzjwyj, d, fzsvzj ráx frjsfefx qj mflfs f jxyf
anif vzj js qf azjxywf xj xzxyjsyf.

Jxywfñt jxujhyáhzqt kzj éxyj ufwf its Kjwsfsit d ufwf ytitx qtx
hnwhzsxyfsyjx, firnwásitxj ij yfs st anxyt xzhjxt. Ufwjhnóqj f Itwtyjf vzj
its Kjwsfsit mfgíf ujwinit qf htqtw ijq wtxywt d vzj mfhíf fijrás ij vzjwjw
ajslfwxj ij Hfwijsnt, utwvzj qj ant jshfrnsfw qf rfst f utsjqqf js qf
jxufif; d, fxí htrt qt ujsxó, hts st anxyf uwjxyjef xj fgwfeó hts éq utw
qfx wtinqqfx, gjxásitxjqfx d yjsnésitqj fuwjyfit, vzj st qj ijofgf rtajw,
d, xns hjxfw zs uzsyt ij xzx qálwnrfx, qj ijhíf:

-¿Vzé jx qt vzj unjsxfx mfhjw, úsnht wjkzlnt rít, js jxyj yfs nrujsxfit
ywfshj? Yú ynjsjx f yzx unjx f yz jxutxf, d qf vzj vznjwjx vzj qt xjf jxyá
js qtx gwfetx ij xz rfwnit. Rnwf xn yj jxyfwá gnjs t yj xjwá utxngqj
ijxmfhjw qt vzj jq hnjqt mf mjhmt, t xn yj htsajsiwá vzjwjw qjafsyfw f
nlzfqfw f yn rnxrt f qf vzj, utxuzjxyt ytit nshtsajsnjsyj, htsknwrfif js xz
ajwifi d knwrjef, ijqfsyj ij yzx totx ynjsj qtx xzdtx, gfñfitx ij qnhtw
frtwtxt jq wtxywt d ujhmt ij xz ajwifijwt jxutxt. Utw vznjs Intx jx yj
wzjlt, d utw vznjs yú jwjx yj xzuqnht, vzj jxyj yfs stytwnt ijxjslfñt st
xóqt st fhwjhnjsyj yz nwf, xnst vzj qf rjslüj js yfq rfsjwf, vzj hts
vznjyzi d xtxnjlt ujwrnyfx vzj jxytx itx frfsyjx qj yjslfs, xns
nrujinrnjsyt yzdt, ytit jq ynjrut vzj jq hnjqt vznxnjwj htshjiéwxjqj; d js
jxyt rtxywfwáx qf ljsjwtxnifi ij yz nqzxywj d stgqj ujhmt, d ajwá jq rzsit
vzj ynjsj htsynlt ráx kzjwef qf wfeós vzj jq fujynyt.

Js yfsyt vzj jxyt ijhíf Itwtyjf, fzsvzj Hfwijsnt yjsíf fgwfefif f Qzxhnsif,
st vznyfgf qtx totx ij its Kjwsfsit, hts ijyjwrnsfhnós ij vzj, xn qj anjxj
mfhjw fqlús rtanrnjsyt js xz ujwoznhnt, uwthzwfw ijkjsijwxj d tkjsijw htrt
rjotw uzinjxj f ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj js xz ifñt xj rtxywfxjs, fzsvzj qj
htxyfxj qf anif. Ujwt f jxyf xfeós fhzinjwts qtx frnltx ij its Kjwsfsit, d
jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, vzj f ytit mfgífs jxyfit uwjxjsyjx, xns vzj kfqyfxj
jq gzjst ij Xfshmt Ufsef, d ytitx wtijfgfs f its Kjwsfsit, xzuqnhásitqj
yzanjxj utw gnjs ij rnwfw qfx qálwnrfx ij Itwtyjf; d vzj, xnjsit ajwifi,
htrt xns izif jqqtx hwjífs vzj qt jwf, qt vzj js xzx wfetsjx mfgíf inhmt,
vzj st ujwrnynjxj vzjifxj ijkwfzifif ij xzx yfs ozxyfx jxujwfsefx. Vzj
htsxnijwfxj vzj, st fhfxt, htrt ufwjhíf, xnst hts ufwynhzqfw uwtanijshnf
ijq hnjqt, xj mfgífs ytitx ozsyfit js qzlfw itsij rjstx snslzst ujsxfgf; d
vzj fianwynjxj -inot jq hzwf- vzj xtqf qf rzjwyj utiíf fufwyfw f Qzxhnsif
ij Hfwijsnt; d, fzsvzj qtx inaninjxjs knqtx ij fqlzsf jxufif, jqqtx
yjsiwífs utw kjqnhíxnrf xz rzjwyj; d vzj js qtx qfetx nswjrjinfgqjx jwf
xzrf htwizwf, ktweásitxj d ajshnésitxj f xí rnxrt, rtxywfw zs ljsjwtxt
ujhmt, ujwrnynjsit vzj utw xtqf xz atqzsyfi qtx itx ltefxjs jq gnjs vzj jq
hnjqt df qjx mfgíf htshjinit; vzj uzxnjxj qtx totx fsxnrjxrt js qf gjqifi
ij Itwtyjf, d ajwíf vzj uthfx t snslzsf xj qj utiífs nlzfqfw, hzfsyt ráx
mfhjwqj ajsyfof, d vzj ozsyfxj f xz mjwrtxzwf xz mzrnqifi d jq jxywjrt ijq
frtw vzj qj yjsíf; d, xtgwj ytit, fianwynjxj vzj xn xj uwjhnfgf ij
hfgfqqjwt d ij hwnxynfst, vzj st utiíf mfhjw tywf htxf vzj hzruqnqqj qf
ufqfgwf ifif, d vzj, hzruqnésitxjqf, hzruqnwíf hts Intx d xfynxkfwíf f qfx
ljsyjx inxhwjyfx, qfx hzfqjx xfgjs d htsthjs vzj jx uwjwwtlfynaf ij qf
mjwrtxzwf, fzsvzj jxyé js xzojyt mzrnqij, htrt xj fhtrufñj hts qf
mtsjxynifi, utijw qjafsyfwxj j nlzfqfwxj f hzfqvznjwf fqyjef, xns styf ij
rjstxhfgt ijq vzj qf qjafsyf j nlzfqf f xí rnxrt; d, hzfsit xj hzruqjs qfx
kzjwyjx qjdjx ijq lzxyt, htrt js jqqt st nsyjwajslf ujhfit, st ijgj ij xjw
hzqufit jq vzj qfx xnlzj.

Js jkjyt, f jxyfx wfetsjx fñfinjwts ytitx tywfx, yfqjx d yfsyfx, vzj jq
afqjwtxt ujhmt ij its Kjwsfsit (js kns, htrt fqnrjsyfit hts nqzxywj xfslwj)
xj fgqfsió d xj ijoó ajshjw ij qf ajwifi, vzj éq st uzinjwf sjlfw fzsvzj
vznxnjwf; d qf xjñfq vzj int ij mfgjwxj wjsinit d jsywjlfit fq gzjs ufwjhjw
vzj xj qj mfgíf uwtuzjxyt kzj fgfofwxj d fgwfefw f Itwtyjf, inhnésitqj:

-Qjafsyftx, xjñtwf ríf, vzj st jx ozxyt vzj jxyé fwwtinqqfif f rnx unjx qf
vzj dt yjslt js rn fqrf; d xn mfxyf fvzí st mj ifit rzjxywfx ij qt vzj
inlt, vzneá mf xnit utw twijs ijq hnjqt, ufwf vzj, anjsit dt js atx qf kj
hts vzj rj fránx, tx xjuf jxynrfw js qt vzj rjwjhénx. Qt vzj tx wzjlt jx
vzj st rj wjuwjmjsiánx rn rfq yéwrnst d rn rzhmt ijxhznit, uzjx qf rnxrf
thfxnós d kzjwef vzj rj rtanó ufwf fhjyfwtx utw ríf, jxf rnxrf rj nrujqnó
ufwf uwthzwfw st xjw azjxywt. D vzj jxyt xjf ajwifi, atqaji d rnwfi qtx
totx ij qf df htsyjsyf Qzxhnsif, d js jqqtx mfqqfwénx inxhzquf ij ytitx rnx
djwwtx; d, uzjx jqqf mfqqó d fqhfseó qt vzj ijxjfgf, d dt mj mfqqfit js atx
qt vzj rj hzruqj, anaf jqqf xjlzwf d htsyjsyf qzjsltx d kjqnhjx fñtx hts xz
Hfwijsnt, vzj dt wtlfwé fq hnjqt vzj rj qtx ijoj ananw hts rn Itwtyjf.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, qf ytwsó f fgwfefw d f ozsyfw xz wtxywt hts jq xzdt, hts
yfs ynjwst xjsynrnjsyt, vzj qj kzj sjhjxfwnt yjsjw lwfs hzjsyf hts vzj qfx
qálwnrfx st fhfgfxjs ij ifw nsizgnyfgqjx xjñfx ij xz frtw d
fwwjujsynrnjsyt. St qt mnhnjwts fxí qfx ij Qzxhnsif d Hfwijsnt, d fzs qfx
ij hfxn ytitx qtx vzj fqqí uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs, utwvzj htrjsefwts f ijwwfrfw
yfsyfx, qtx zstx ij htsyjsyt uwtuwnt d qtx tywtx ijq fojst, vzj st ufwjhíf
xnst vzj fqlús lwfaj d rfq hfxt f ytitx mfgíf xzhjinit. Mfxyf Xfshmt Ufsef
qqtwfgf, fzsvzj ijxuzéx inot vzj st qqtwfgf éq xnst utw ajw vzj Itwtyjf st
jwf, htrt éq ujsxfgf, qf wjnsf Rnhtrnhtsf, ij vznjs éq yfsyfx rjwhjijx
jxujwfgf. Izwó fqlús jxufhnt, ozsyt hts jq qqfsyt, qf firnwfhnós js ytitx,
d qzjlt Hfwijsnt d Qzxhnsif xj kzjwts f utsjw ij wtinqqfx fsyj its
Kjwsfsit, iásitqj lwfhnfx ij qf rjwhji vzj qjx mfgíf mjhmt hts yfs htwyjxjx
wfetsjx, vzj its Kjwsfsit st xfgíf vzé wjxutsijwqjx; d fxí, qtx qjafsyó d
fgwfeó hts rzjxywfx ij rzhmt frtw d ij rzhmf htwyjxíf.

Uwjlzsyó qzjlt f Itwtyjf qj inojxj hórt mfgíf ajsnit f fvzjq qzlfw yfs
qjotx ijq xzdt. Jqqf, hts gwjajx d inxhwjyfx wfetsjx, htsyó ytit qt vzj
fsyjx mfgíf htsyfit f Hfwijsnt, ij qt hzfq lzxyó yfsyt its Kjwsfsit d qtx
vzj hts éq ajsífs, vzj vznxnjwfs vzj izwfwf jq hzjsyt ráx ynjrut: yfsyf jwf
qf lwfhnf hts vzj Itwtyjf htsyfgf xzx ijxajsyzwfx. D, fxí htrt mzgt
fhfgfit, inot its Kjwsfsit qt vzj js qf hnzifi qj mfgíf fhtsyjhnit ijxuzéx
vzj mfqqó jq ufujq js jq xjst ij Qzxhnsif, itsij ijhqfwfgf xjw jxutxf ij
Hfwijsnt d st utijwqt xjw xzdf. Inot vzj qf vznxt rfyfw, d qt mnhnjwf xn ij
xzx ufiwjx st kzjwf nrujinit; d vzj fxí, xj xfqnó ij xz hfxf, ijxujhmfit d
htwwnit, hts ijyjwrnsfhnós ij ajslfwxj hts ráx htrtinifi; d vzj tywt iíf
xzut htrt Qzxhnsif mfgíf kfqyfit ij hfxf ij xzx ufiwjx, xns vzj sfinj
xzunjxj ijhnw iósij xj mfgíf nit, d vzj, js wjxtqzhnós, fq hfgt ij fqlzstx
rjxjx anst f xfgjw htrt jxyfgf js zs rtsjxyjwnt, hts atqzsyfi ij vzjifwxj
js éq ytif qf anif, xn st qf uzinjxj ufxfw hts Hfwijsnt; d vzj, fxí htrt qt
xzut, jxhtlnjsit ufwf xz htrufñíf fvzjqqtx ywjx hfgfqqjwtx, anst fq qzlfw
itsij jxyfgf, f qf hzfq st mfgíf vzjwnit mfgqfw, yjrjwtxt vzj, js xfgnjsit
vzj éq jxyfgf fqqí, mfgíf ij mfgjw ráx lzfwif js jq rtsjxyjwnt; d fxí,
flzfwifsit zs iíf f vzj qf utwyjwíf jxyzanjxj fgnjwyf, ijoó f qtx itx f qf
lzfwif ij qf uzjwyf, d éq, hts tywt, mfgífs jsywfit js jq rtsjxyjwnt
gzxhfsit f Qzxhnsif, qf hzfq mfqqfwts js jq hqfzxywt mfgqfsit hts zsf
rtsof; d, fwwjgfyásitqf, xns ifwqj qzlfw f tywf htxf, xj mfgífs ajsnit hts
jqqf f zs qzlfw itsij xj fhtrtifwts ij fvzjqqt vzj mzgnjwts rjsjxyjw ufwf
ywfjqqf. Ytit qt hzfq mfgífs utinit mfhjw gnjs f xz xfqat, utw jxyfw jq
rtsjxyjwnt js jq hfrut, gzjs ywjhmt kzjwf ijq uzjgqt. Inot vzj, fxí htrt
Qzxhnsif xj ant js xz utijw, ujwinó ytitx qtx xjsynitx; d vzj, ijxuzéx ij
azjqyf js xí, st mfgíf mjhmt tywf htxf xnst qqtwfw d xzxunwfw, xns mfgqfw
ufqfgwf fqlzsf; d vzj fxí, fhtrufñfitx ij xnqjshnt d ij qálwnrfx, mfgífs
qqjlfit f fvzjqqf ajsyf, vzj ufwf éq jwf mfgjw qqjlfit fq hnjqt, itsij xj
wjrfyfs d ynjsjs kns ytifx qfx ijxajsyzwfx ij qf ynjwwf.





Hfuíyzqt CCCANN. Vzj uwtxnlzj qf mnxytwnf ij qf kfrtxf nskfsyf Rnhtrnhtsf,
hts tywfx lwfhntxfx fajsyzwfx


Ytit jxyt jxhzhmfgf Xfshmt, st hts utht itqtw ij xz ásnrf, anjsit vzj xj
qj ijxufwjhífs j ngfs js mzrt qfx jxujwfsefx ij xz inyfit, d vzj qf qnsif
uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf xj qj mfgíf azjqyt js Itwtyjf, d jq lnlfsyj js its
Kjwsfsit, d xz frt xj jxyfgf izwrnjsit f xzjñt xzjqyt, gnjs ijxhznifit ij
ytit qt xzhjinit. St xj utiíf fxjlzwfw Itwtyjf xn jwf xtñfit jq gnjs vzj
utxjíf. Hfwijsnt jxyfgf js jq rnxrt ujsxfrnjsyt, d jq ij Qzxhnsif htwwíf
utw qf rnxrf hzjsyf. Its Kjwsfsit ifgf lwfhnfx fq hnjqt utw qf rjwhji
wjhjgnif d mfgjwqj xfhfit ij fvzjq nsywnhfit qfgjwnsyt, itsij xj mfqqfgf
yfs f unvzj ij ujwijw jq hwéinyt d jq fqrf; d, knsfqrjsyj, hzfsytx js qf
ajsyf jxyfgfs, jxyfgfs htsyjsytx d ltetxtx ijq gzjs xzhjxt vzj mfgífs
yjsnit yfs ywfgfitx d ijxjxujwfitx sjlthntx.

Ytit qt utsíf js xz uzsyt jq hzwf, htrt inxhwjyt, d f hfif zst ifgf jq
ufwfgnés ijq gnjs fqhfsefit; ujwt vznjs ráx ozgnqfgf d xj htsyjsyfgf jwf qf
ajsyjwf, utw qf uwtrjxf vzj Hfwijsnt d jq hzwf qj mfgífs mjhmt ij uflfqqj
ytitx qtx ifñtx j nsyjwjxjx vzj utw hzjsyf ij its Vznotyj qj mzgnjxjs
ajsnit. Xóqt Xfshmt, htrt df xj mf inhmt, jwf jq fkqnlnit, jq ijxajsyzwfit
d jq ywnxyj; d fxí, hts rfqjshósnht xjrgqfsyj, jsywó f xz frt, jq hzfq
fhfgfgf ij ijxujwyfw, f vznjs inot:

-Gnjs uzjij azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw Ywnxyj Knlzwf, itwrnw ytit qt vzj
vznxnjwj, xns hznifit ij rfyfw f snslús lnlfsyj, sn ij atqajw f qf uwnshjxf
xz wjnst: vzj df ytit jxyá mjhmt d htshqznit.

-Jxt hwjt dt gnjs -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj mj yjsnit hts jq lnlfsyj
qf ráx ijxhtrzsfq d ijxfktwfif gfyfqqf vzj unjsxt yjsjw js ytitx qtx iífx
ij rn anif; d ij zs wjaéx, ¡efx!, qj ijwwngé qf hfgjef js jq xzjqt, d kzj
yfsyf qf xfslwj vzj qj xfqnó, vzj qtx fwwtdtx htwwífs utw qf ynjwwf htrt xn
kzjwfs ij flzf.

-Htrt xn kzjwfs ij anst ynsyt, uzinjwf azjxywf rjwhji ijhnw rjotw
-wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjuf azjxywf rjwhji, xn jx vzj st qt
xfgj, vzj jq lnlfsyj rzjwyt jx zs hzjwt mtwfifit, d qf xfslwj, xjnx fwwtgfx
ij anst ynsyt vzj jshjwwfgf js xz anjsywj; d qf hfgjef htwyfif jx qf uzyf
vzj rj ufwnó, d qqéajqt ytit Xfyfsáx.

-D ¿vzé jx qt vzj inhjx, qtht? -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. ¿Jxyáx js yz xjxt?

-Qjaásyjxj azjxywf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt-, d ajwá jq gzjs wjhfit vzj mf
mjhmt, d qt vzj yjsjrtx vzj uflfw; d ajwá f qf wjnsf htsajwynif js zsf ifrf
ufwynhzqfw, qqfrfif Itwtyjf, hts tywtx xzhjxtx vzj, xn hfj js jqqtx, qj mfs
ij firnwfw.

-St rj rfwfanqqfwíf ij sfif ijxt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj, xn gnjs yj
fhzjwifx, qf tywf aje vzj fvzí jxyzanrtx yj inoj dt vzj ytit hzfsyt fvzí
xzhjiíf jwfs htxfx ij jshfsyfrjsyt, d st xjwíf rzhmt vzj fmtwf kzjxj qt
rjxrt.

-Ytit qt hwjdjwf dt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn yfrgnés rn rfsyjfrnjsyt kzjwf
htxf ijxj ofje, rfx st qt kzj, xnst wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj; d an dt vzj jq
ajsyjwt vzj fvzí jxyá mtd iíf yjsíf ijq zs hfgt ij qf rfsyf, d rj jruzofgf
mfhnf jq hnjqt hts rzhmt itsfnwj d gwít, d hts yfsyf wnxf htrt kzjwef; d
itsij nsyjwanjsj htsthjwxj qfx ujwxtsfx, yjslt ufwf rí, fzsvzj xnruqj d
ujhfitw, vzj st mfd jshfsyfrjsyt fqlzst, xnst rzhmt rtqnrnjsyt d rzhmf rfqf
ajsyzwf.

-Fmtwf gnjs, Intx qt wjrjinfwá -inot its Vznotyj-. Ifrj ij ajxynw d iéofrj
xfqnw fqqá kzjwf, vzj vznjwt ajw qtx xzhjxtx d ywfsxktwrfhntsjx vzj inhjx.

Intqj ij ajxynw Xfshmt, d, js jq jsywjyfsyt vzj xj ajxyíf, htsyó jq hzwf f
its Kjwsfsit d f qtx ijráx qfx qthzwfx ij its Vznotyj, d ijq fwynknhnt vzj
mfgífs zxfit ufwf xfhfwqj ij qf Ujñf Utgwj, itsij éq xj nrflnsfgf jxyfw utw
ijxijsjx ij xz xjñtwf. Htsyóqjx fxnrnxrt hfxn ytifx qfx fajsyzwfx vzj
Xfshmt mfgíf htsyfit, ij vzj st utht xj firnwfwts d wnjwts, utw ufwjhjwqjx
qt vzj f ytitx ufwjhíf: xjw jq ráx jxywfñt lésjwt ij qthzwf vzj utiíf hfgjw
js ujsxfrnjsyt ijxufwfyfit. Inot ráx jq hzwf: vzj, uzjx df jq gzjs xzhjxt
ij qf xjñtwf Itwtyjf nruniíf ufxfw hts xz inxnlsnt fijqfsyj, vzj jwf
rjsjxyjw nsajsyfw d mfqqfw tywt ufwf utijwqj qqjafw f xz ynjwwf. Tkwjhnóxj
Hfwijsnt ij uwtxjlznw qt htrjsefit, d vzj Qzxhnsif mfwíf d wjuwjxjsyfwíf qf
ujwxtsf ij Itwtyjf.

-St -inot its Kjwsfsit-, st mf ij xjw fxí: vzj dt vznjwt vzj Itwtyjf
uwtxnlf xz nsajshnós; vzj, htrt st xjf rzd qjotx ij fvzí jq qzlfw ijxyj
gzjs hfgfqqjwt, dt mtqlfwé ij vzj xj uwthzwj xz wjrjint.

-St jxyá ráx ij itx otwsfifx ij fvzí.

-Uzjx, fzsvzj jxyzanjwf ráx, lzxyfwf dt ij hfrnsfqqfx, f ywzjht ij mfhjw
yfs gzjsf tgwf.

Xfqnó, js jxyt, its Vznotyj, fwrfit ij ytitx xzx ujwywjhmtx, hts jq djqrt,
fzsvzj fgtqqfit, ij Rfrgwnst js qf hfgjef, jrgwfefit ij xz wtijqf d
fwwnrfit f xz ywtsht t qfseós. Xzxujsinó f its Kjwsfsit d f qtx ijráx qf
jxywfñf uwjxjshnf ij its Vznotyj, anjsit xz wtxywt ij rjinf qjlzf ij
fsifizwf, xjht d frfwnqqt, qf ijxnlzfqifi ij xzx fwrfx d xz rjxzwfit
htsynsjsyj, d jxyzanjwts hfqqfsit mfxyf ajw qt vzj éq ijhíf, jq hzfq, hts
rzhmf lwfajifi d wjutxt, uzjxytx qtx totx js qf mjwrtxf Itwtyjf, inot:

-Jxytd nsktwrfit, mjwrtxf xjñtwf, ijxyj rn jxhzijwt vzj qf azjxywf lwfsijef
xj mf fsnvznqfit, d azjxywt xjw xj mf ijxmjhmt, utwvzj ij wjnsf d lwfs
xjñtwf vzj xtqífijx xjw tx mfgénx azjqyt js zsf ufwynhzqfw itshjqqf. Xn
jxyt mf xnit utw twijs ijq wjd snlwtrfsyj ij azjxywt ufiwj, yjrjwtxt vzj dt
st tx injxj qf sjhjxfwnf d ijgnif fdzif, inlt vzj st xzut sn xfgj ij qf
rnxf qf rjinf, d vzj kzj utht ajwxfit js qfx mnxytwnfx hfgfqqjwjxhfx,
utwvzj xn éq qfx mzgnjwf qjíit d ufxfit yfs fyjsyfrjsyj d hts yfsyt jxufhnt
htrt dt qfx ufxé d qjí, mfqqfwf f hfif ufxt hórt tywtx hfgfqqjwtx ij rjstw
kfrf vzj qf ríf mfgífs fhfgfit htxfx ráx inknhzqytxfx, st xnésitqt rzhmt
rfyfw f zs lnlfsynqqt, utw fwwtlfsyj vzj xjf; utwvzj st mf rzhmfx mtwfx vzj
dt rj an hts éq, d... vznjwt hfqqfw, utwvzj st rj inlfs vzj rnjsyt; ujwt jq
ynjrut, ijxhzgwnitw ij ytifx qfx htxfx, qt inwá hzfsit rjstx qt ujsxjrtx.

-Aíxyjxtx atx hts itx hzjwtx, vzj st hts zs lnlfsyj -inot f jxyf xfeós jq
ajsyjwt.

Fq hzfq rfsió its Kjwsfsit vzj hfqqfxj d st nsyjwwzrunjxj qf uqáynhf ij its
Vznotyj js snslzsf rfsjwf; d its Vznotyj uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-Inlt, js kns, fqyf d ijxmjwjifif xjñtwf, vzj xn utw qf hfzxf vzj mj inhmt
azjxywt ufiwj mf mjhmt jxyj rjyfrtwkóxjtx js azjxywf ujwxtsf, vzj st qj
ijnx hwéinyt fqlzst, utwvzj st mfd snslús ujqnlwt js qf ynjwwf utw vznjs st
xj fgwf hfrnst rn jxufif, hts qf hzfq, utsnjsit qf hfgjef ij azjxywt
jsjrnlt js ynjwwf, tx utsiwé f atx qf htwtsf ij qf azjxywf js qf hfgjef js
gwjajx iífx.

St inot ráx its Vznotyj, d jxujwó f vzj qf uwnshjxf qj wjxutsinjxj, qf
hzfq, htrt df xfgíf qf ijyjwrnsfhnós ij its Kjwsfsit ij vzj xj uwtxnlznjxj
fijqfsyj js jq jslfñt mfxyf qqjafw f xz ynjwwf f its Vznotyj, hts rzhmt
itsfnwj d lwfajifi, qj wjxutsinó:

-Vznjsvznjwf vzj tx inot, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, vzj dt rj
mfgíf rzifit d ywthfit ij rn xjw, st tx inot qt hnjwyt, utwvzj qf rnxrf vzj
fdjw kzn rj xtd mtd. Ajwifi jx vzj fqlzsf rzifsef mfs mjhmt js rí hnjwytx
fhfjhnrnjsytx ij gzjsf ajsyzwf, vzj rj qf mfs ifit qf rjotw vzj dt uzinjwf
ijxjfwrj, ujwt st utw jxt mj ijofit ij xjw qf vzj fsyjx d ij yjsjw qtx
rjxrtx ujsxfrnjsytx ij afqjwrj ijq afqtw ij azjxywt afqjwtxt j nsajsjwfgqj
gwfet vzj xnjruwj mj yjsnit. Fxí vzj, xjñtw rít, azjxywf gtsifi azjqaf qf
mtswf fq ufiwj vzj rj jsljsiwó, d yéslfqj utw mtrgwj fiajwynit d uwzijsyj,
uzjx hts xz hnjshnf mfqqó hfrnst yfs káhnq d yfs ajwifijwt ufwf wjrjinfw rn
ijxlwfhnf; vzj dt hwjt vzj xn utw atx, xjñtw, st kzjwf, ofráx fhjwyfwf f
yjsjw qf ajsyzwf vzj yjslt; d js jxyt inlt yfsyf ajwifi htrt xts gzjstx
yjxynltx ijqqf qtx ráx ijxytx xjñtwjx vzj jxyás uwjxjsyjx. Qt vzj wjxyf jx
vzj rfñfsf stx utslfrtx js hfrnst, utwvzj df mtd xj utiwá mfhjw uthf
otwsfif, d js qt ijráx ijq gzjs xzhjxt vzj jxujwt, qt ijofwé f Intx d fq
afqtw ij azjxywt ujhmt.

Jxyt inot qf inxhwjyf Itwtyjf, d, js tdésitqt its Vznotyj, xj atqanó f
Xfshmt, d, hts rzjxywfx ij rzhmt jstot, qj inot:

-Fmtwf yj inlt, Xfshmzjqt, vzj jwjx jq rfdtw gjqqfhzjqt vzj mfd js Jxufñf.
Inrj, qfiwós aflfrzsit, ¿st rj fhfgfxyj ij ijhnw fmtwf vzj jxyf uwnshjxf xj
mfgíf azjqyt js zsf itshjqqf vzj xj qqfrfgf Itwtyjf, d vzj qf hfgjef vzj
jsynjsit vzj htwyé f zs lnlfsyj jwf qf uzyf vzj yj ufwnó, hts tywtx
inxufwfyjx vzj rj uzxnjwts js qf rfdtw htskzxnós vzj ofráx mj jxyfit js
ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif? ¡Atyt... -d rnwó fq hnjqt d fuwjyó qtx injsyjx-
vzj jxytd utw mfhjw zs jxywflt js yn, vzj utslf xfq js qf rtqqjwf f ytitx
hzfsytx rjsynwtxtx jxhzijwtx mzgnjwj ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ij fvzí
fijqfsyj, js jq rzsit!

-Azjxywf rjwhji xj xtxnjlzj, xjñtw rít -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj gnjs utiwíf
xjw vzj dt rj mzgnjxj jslfñfit js qt vzj ythf f qf rzyfhnós ij qf xjñtwf
uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf; ujwt, js qt vzj ythf f qf hfgjef ijq lnlfsyj, t, f qt
rjstx, f qf mtwfifhnós ij qtx hzjwtx d f qt ij xjw anst ynsyt qf xfslwj, st
rj jslfñt, ¡anaj Intx!, utwvzj qtx hzjwtx fqqí jxyás mjwnitx, f qf hfgjhjwf
ijq qjhmt ij azjxywf rjwhji, d jq anst ynsyt ynjsj mjhmt zs qflt jq
futxjsyt; d xn st, fq kwjíw ij qtx mzjatx qt ajwá; vznjwt ijhnw vzj qt ajwá
hzfsit fvzí xz rjwhji ijq xjñtw ajsyjwt qj unif jq rjstxhfgt ij ytit. Ij qt
ijráx, ij vzj qf xjñtwf wjnsf xj jxyé htrt xj jxyfgf, rj wjlthnot js jq
fqrf, utwvzj rj af rn ufwyj, htrt f hfif mnot ij ajhnst.

-Fmtwf dt yj inlt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj jwjx zs rjsyjhfyt; d
ujwiósfrj, d gfxyf.

-Gfxyf -inot its Kjwsfsit-, d st xj mfgqj ráx js jxyt; d, uzjx qf xjñtwf
uwnshjxf inhj vzj xj hfrnsj rfñfsf, utwvzj df mtd jx yfwij, málfxj fxí, d
jxyf sthmj qf utiwjrtx ufxfw js gzjsf htsajwxfhnós mfxyf jq ajsnijwt iíf,
itsij ytitx fhtrufñfwjrtx fq xjñtw its Vznotyj, utwvzj vzjwjrtx xjw
yjxynltx ij qfx afqjwtxfx j nsfzinyfx mfefñfx vzj mf ij mfhjw js jq
inxhzwxt ijxyf lwfsij jruwjxf vzj f xz hfwlt qqjaf.

-Dt xtd jq vzj yjslt ij xjwanwtx d fhtrufñfwtx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d
flwfijeht rzhmt qf rjwhji vzj xj rj mfhj d qf gzjsf tunsnós vzj ij rí xj
ynjsj, qf hzfq uwthzwfwé vzj xfqlf ajwifijwf, t rj htxyfwá qf anif, d fzs
ráx, xn ráx htxyfwrj uzjij.

Rzhmfx ufqfgwfx ij htrjinrnjsyt d rzhmtx tkwjhnrnjsytx ufxfwts jsywj its
Vznotyj d its Kjwsfsit; ujwt f ytit uzxt xnqjshnt zs ufxfojwt vzj js
fvzjqqf xfeós jsywó js qf ajsyf, jq hzfq js xz ywfoj rtxywfgf xjw hwnxynfst
wjhnés ajsnit ij ynjwwf ij rtwtx, utwvzj ajsíf ajxynit hts zsf hfxfhf ij
ufñt fezq, htwyf ij kfqifx, hts rjinfx rfslfx d xns hzjqqt; qtx hfqetsjx
jwfs fxnrnxrt ij qnjset fezq, hts gtsjyj ij qf rnxrf htqtw; ywfíf zstx
gtwhjlzíjx ifynqfitx d zs fqkfsoj rtwnxht, uzjxyt js zs yfmjqí vzj qj
fywfajxfgf jq ujhmt. Jsywó qzjlt ywfx éq, jshnrf ij zs ozrjsyt, zsf rzojw f
qf rtwnxhf ajxynif, hzgnjwyt jq wtxywt hts zsf ythf js qf hfgjef; ywfíf zs
gtsjynqqt ij gwthfit, d ajxynif zsf fqrfqfkf, vzj ijxij qtx mtrgwtx f qtx
unjx qf hzgwíf. Jwf jq mtrgwj ij wtgzxyt d flwfhnfit yfqqj, ij jifi ij utht
ráx ij hzfwjsyf fñtx, fqlt rtwjst ij wtxywt, qfwlt ij gnltyjx d qf gfwgf
rzd gnjs uzjxyf. Js wjxtqzhnós, éq rtxywfgf js xz futxyzwf vzj xn jxyzanjwf
gnjs ajxynit, qj ozelfwfs utw ujwxtsf ij hfqnifi d gnjs sfhnif.

Uninó, js jsywfsit, zs futxjsyt, d, htrt qj inojwts vzj js qf ajsyf st qj
mfgíf, rtxywó wjhjgnw ujxfizrgwj; d, qqjlásitxj f qf vzj js jq ywfoj
ufwjhíf rtwf, qf fujó js xzx gwfetx. Qzxhnsif, Itwtyjf, qf ajsyjwf, xz mnof
d Rfwnytwsjx, qqjafifx ijq szjat d ufwf jqqfx szshf anxyt ywfoj, wtijfwts f
qf rtwf, d Itwtyjf, vzj xnjruwj kzj flwfhnfif, htrjinif d inxhwjyf,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj fxí jqqf htrt jq vzj qf ywfíf xj htsltofgfs utw qf kfqyf
ijq futxjsyt, qj inot:

-St tx ié rzhmf ujsf, xjñtwf ríf, qf nshtrtinifi ij wjlfqt vzj fvzí kfqyf,
uzjx jx uwtuwnt ij ajsyfx st mfqqfwxj js jqqfx; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, xn
lzxyáwjijx ij ufxfw hts stxtywfx -xjñfqfsit f Qzxhnsif-, vzneá js jq
inxhzwxt ij jxyj hfrnst mfgwénx mfqqfit tywtx st yfs gzjstx fhtlnrnjsytx.

St wjxutsinó sfif f jxyt qf jrgtefif, sn mnet tywf htxf vzj qjafsyfwxj ij
itsij xjsyfit xj mfgíf, d, uzjxyfx jsywfrgfx rfstx hwzefifx xtgwj jq ujhmt,
nshqnsfif qf hfgjef, itgqó jq hzjwut js xjñfq ij vzj qt flwfijhíf. Utw xz
xnqjshnt nrflnsfwts vzj, xns izif fqlzsf, ijgíf ij xjw rtwf, d vzj st xfgíf
mfgqfw hwnxynfst. Qqjló, js jxyt, jq hfzynat, vzj jsyjsinjsit js tywf htxf
mfxyf jsytshjx mfgíf jxyfit, d, anjsit vzj ytifx yjsífs hjwhfif f qf vzj
hts éq ajsíf, d vzj jqqf f hzfsyt qj ijhífs hfqqfgf, inot:

-Xjñtwfx rífx, jxyf itshjqqf fujsfx jsynjsij rn qjslzf, sn xfgj mfgqfw tywf
snslzsf xnst htsktwrj f xz ynjwwf, d utw jxyt st ijgj ij mfgjw wjxutsinit,
sn wjxutsij, f qt vzj xj qj mf uwjlzsyfit.

-St xj qj uwjlzsyf tywf htxf snslzsf -wjxutsinó Qzxhnsif- xnst tkwjhjqqj
utw jxyf sthmj szjxywf htrufñíf d ufwyj ijq qzlfw itsij stx fhtrtiáwjrtx,
itsij xj qj mfwá jq wjlfqt vzj qf htrtinifi tkwjhnjwj, hts qf atqzsyfi vzj
tgqnlf f xjwanw f ytitx qtx jxywfsojwtx vzj ijqqt yzanjwjs sjhjxnifi,
jxujhnfqrjsyj xnjsit rzojw f vznjs xj xnwaj.

-Utw jqqf d utw rí -wjxutsinó jq hfuynat- tx gjxt, xjñtwf ríf, qfx rfstx, d
jxynrt rzhmt d js qt vzj jx wfeós qf rjwhji tkwjhnif; vzj js yfq thfxnós, d
ij yfqjx ujwxtsfx htrt azjxywt ufwjhjw rzjxywf, gnjs xj jhmf ij ajw vzj mf
ij xjw rzd lwfsij.

-Ijhnirj, xjñtw -inot Itwtyjf-: ¿jxyf xjñtwf jx hwnxynfsf t rtwf? Utwvzj jq
ywfoj d jq xnqjshnt stx mfhj ujsxfw vzj jx qt vzj st vzjwwífrtx vzj kzjxj.

-Rtwf jx js jq ywfoj d js jq hzjwut, ujwt js jq fqrf jx rzd lwfsij
hwnxynfsf, utwvzj ynjsj lwfsiíxnrtx ijxjtx ij xjwqt.

-Qzjlt, ¿st jx gfuynefif? -wjuqnhó Qzxhnsif.

-St mf mfgnit qzlfw ufwf jqqt -wjxutsinó jq hfuynat- ijxuzéx vzj xfqnó ij
Fwljq, xz ufywnf d ynjwwf, d mfxyf fltwf st xj mf anxyt js ujqnlwt ij
rzjwyj yfs hjwhfsf vzj tgqnlfxj f gfuynefqqf xns vzj xzunjxj uwnrjwt ytifx
qfx hjwjrtsnfx vzj szjxywf Rfiwj qf Xfsyf Nlqjxnf rfsif; ujwt Intx xjwá
xjwanit vzj uwjxyt xj gfzynhj hts qf ijhjshnf vzj qf hfqnifi ij xz ujwxtsf
rjwjhj, vzj jx ráx ij qt vzj rzjxywf xz mágnyt d jq rít.

Hts jxyfx wfetsjx uzxt lfsf js ytitx qtx vzj jxhzhmásitqj jxyfgfs ij
xfgjw vznés kzjxj qf rtwf d jq hfuynat, ujwt sfinj xj qt vznxt uwjlzsyfw
utw jsytshjx, utw ajw vzj fvzjqqf xfeós jwf ráx ufwf uwthzwfwqjx ijxhfsxt
vzj ufwf uwjlzsyfwqjx xzx anifx. Itwtyjf qf ytró utw qf rfst d qf qqjaó f
xjsyfw ozsyt f xí, d qj wtló vzj xj vznyfxj jq jrgtet. Jqqf rnwó fq
hfzynat, htrt xn qj uwjlzsyfwf qj inojxj qt vzj ijhífs d qt vzj jqqf mfwíf.
Éq, js qjslzf fwágnlf, qj inot vzj qj ujiífs xj vznyfxj jq jrgtet, d vzj qt
mnhnjxj; d fxí, xj qt vznyó, d ijxhzgwnó zs wtxywt yfs mjwrtxt vzj Itwtyjf
qf yzat utw ráx mjwrtxf vzj f Qzxhnsif, d Qzxhnsif utw ráx mjwrtxf vzj f
Itwtyjf, d ytitx qtx hnwhzxyfsyjx htsthnjwts vzj xn fqlzst xj utiwíf
nlzfqfw fq ij qfx itx, jwf jq ij qf rtwf, d fzs mzgt fqlzstx vzj qj
fajsyfofwts js fqlzsf htxf. D, htrt qf mjwrtxzwf yjslf uwjwwtlfynaf d
lwfhnf ij wjhtshnqnfw qtx ásnrtx d fywfjw qfx atqzsyfijx, qzjlt xj
wnsinjwts ytitx fq ijxjt ij xjwanw d fhfwnhnfw f qf mjwrtxf rtwf.

Uwjlzsyó its Kjwsfsit fq hfuynat hórt xj qqfrfgf qf rtwf, jq hzfq wjxutsinó
vzj qjqf Etwfnif; d, fxí htrt jxyt tdó, jqqf jsyjsinó qt vzj qj mfgífs
uwjlzsyfit fq hwnxynfst, d inot hts rzhmf uwnjxf, qqjsf ij htsltof d
itsfnwj:

-¡St, st Etwfnif: Rfwíf, Rfwíf! -ifsit f jsyjsijw vzj xj qqfrfgf Rfwíf d st
Etwfnif.

Jxyfx ufqfgwfx, jq lwfsij fkjhyt hts vzj qf rtwf qfx inot, mnhnjwts
ijwwfrfw ráx ij zsf qálwnrf f fqlzstx ij qtx vzj qf jxhzhmfwts,
jxujhnfqrjsyj f qfx rzojwjx, vzj ij xz sfyzwfqjef xts ynjwsfx d htrufxnafx.
Fgwfeóqf Qzxhnsif hts rzhmt frtw, inhnésitqj:

-Xí, xí: Rfwíf, Rfwíf.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó qf rtwf:

-¡Xí, xí: Rfwíf; Etwfnif rfhfslj! -vzj vznjwj ijhnw st.

Df js jxyt qqjlfgf qf sthmj, d, utw twijs ij qtx vzj ajsífs hts its
Kjwsfsit, mfgíf jq ajsyjwt uzjxyt inqnljshnf d hznifit js fijwjefwqjx ij
hjsfw qt rjotw vzj f éq qj kzj utxngqj. Qqjlfif, uzjx, qf mtwf, xjsyáwtsxj
ytitx f zsf qfwlf rjxf, htrt ij ynsjqt, utwvzj st qf mfgíf wjitsif sn
hzfiwfif js qf ajsyf, d injwts qf hfgjhjwf d uwnshnufq fxnjsyt, uzjxyt vzj
éq qt wjmzxfgf, f its Vznotyj, jq hzfq vznxt vzj jxyzanjxj f xz qfit qf
xjñtwf Rnhtrnhtsf, uzjx éq jwf xz flzfwifitw. Qzjlt xj xjsyfwts Qzxhnsif d
Etwfnif, d kwtsyjwt ijqqfx its Kjwsfsit d Hfwijsnt, d qzjlt jq hfzynat d
qtx ijráx hfgfqqjwtx, d, fq qfit ij qfx xjñtwfx, jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt. D
fxí, hjsfwts hts rzhmt htsyjsyt, d fhwjhjsyóxjqjx ráx anjsit vzj, ijofsit
ij htrjw its Vznotyj, rtanit ij tywt xjrjofsyj jxuíwnyz vzj jq vzj qj rtanó
f mfgqfw yfsyt htrt mfgqó hzfsit hjsó hts qtx hfgwjwtx, htrjseó f ijhnw:

-Ajwifijwfrjsyj, xn gnjs xj htsxnijwf, xjñtwjx rítx, lwfsijx j nsfzinyfx
htxfx ajs qtx vzj uwtkjxfs qf twijs ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf. Xn st, ¿hzáq
ij qtx ananjsyjx mfgwá js jq rzsit vzj fmtwf utw qf uzjwyf ijxyj hfxynqqt
jsywfwf, d ij qf xzjwyj vzj jxyfrtx stx anjwj, vzj ozelzj d hwjf vzj
stxtywtx xtrtx vznjs xtrtx? ¿Vznés utiwá ijhnw vzj jxyf xjñtwf vzj jxyá f
rn qfit jx qf lwfs wjnsf vzj ytitx xfgjrtx, d vzj dt xtd fvzjq Hfgfqqjwt ij
qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf vzj fsif utw fmí js gthf ij qf kfrf? Fmtwf st mfd vzj
izifw, xnst vzj jxyf fwyj d jojwhnhnt jchjij f ytifx fvzjqqfx d fvzjqqtx
vzj qtx mtrgwjx nsajsyfwts, d yfsyt ráx xj mf ij yjsjw js jxynrf hzfsyt f
ráx ujqnlwtx jxyá xzojyt. Vzíyjsxjrj ijqfsyj qtx vzj inojwjs vzj qfx qjywfx
mfhjs ajsyfof f qfx fwrfx, vzj qjx inwé, d xjfs vznjs xj kzjwjs, vzj st
xfgjs qt vzj inhjs. Utwvzj qf wfeós vzj qtx yfqjx xzjqjs ijhnw, d f qt vzj
jqqtx ráx xj fynjsjs, jx vzj qtx ywfgfotx ijq jxuíwnyz jchjijs f qtx ijq
hzjwut, d vzj qfx fwrfx xóqt hts jq hzjwut xj jojwhnyfs, htrt xn kzjxj xz
jojwhnhnt tknhnt ij lfsfufsjx, ufwf jq hzfq st jx rjsjxyjw ráx ij gzjsfx
kzjwefx; t htrt xn js jxyt vzj qqfrfrtx fwrfx qtx vzj qfx uwtkjxfrtx st xj
jshjwwfxjs qtx fhytx ij qf ktwyfqjef, qtx hzfqjx unijs ufwf jojhzyfqqtx
rzhmt jsyjsinrnjsyt; t htrt xn st ywfgfofxj jq ásnrt ijq lzjwwjwt vzj ynjsj
f xz hfwlt zs joéwhnyt, t qf ijkjsxf ij zsf hnzifi xnynfif, fxí hts jq
jxuíwnyz htrt hts jq hzjwut. Xn st, aéfxj xn xj fqhfsef hts qfx kzjwefx
htwutwfqjx f xfgjw d htsojyzwfw jq nsyjsyt ijq jsjrnlt, qtx inxnlsntx, qfx
jxywfyfljrfx, qfx inknhzqyfijx, jq uwjajsnw qtx ifñtx vzj xj yjrjs; vzj
ytifx jxyfx htxfx xts fhhntsjx ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt, js vznjs st ynjsj ufwyj
fqlzsf jq hzjwut. Xnjsit uzjx fsxí, vzj qfx fwrfx wjvznjwjs jxuíwnyz, htrt
qfx qjywfx, ajfrtx fmtwf hzáq ij qtx itx jxuíwnyzx, jq ijq qjywfit t jq ijq
lzjwwjwt, ywfgfof ráx. D jxyt xj ajsiwá f htsthjw utw jq kns d ufwfijwt f
vzj hfif zst xj jshfrnsf, utwvzj fvzjqqf nsyjshnós xj mf ij jxynrfw js ráx
vzj ynjsj utw tgojyt ráx stgqj kns. Jx jq kns d ufwfijwt ij qfx qjywfx...,
d st mfgqt fmtwf ij qfx inansfx, vzj ynjsjs utw gqfsht qqjafw d jshfrnsfw
qfx fqrfx fq hnjqt, vzj f zs kns yfs xns kns htrt éxyj snslzst tywt xj qj
uzjij nlzfqfw; mfgqt ij qfx qjywfx mzrfsfx, vzj jx xz kns utsjw js xz uzsyt
qf ozxynhnf inxywngzynaf d ifw f hfif zst qt vzj jx xzdt, jsyjsijw d mfhjw
vzj qfx gzjsfx qjdjx xj lzfwijs. Kns, utw hnjwyt, ljsjwtxt d fqyt d inlst
ij lwfsij fqfgfsef, ujwt st ij yfsyf htrt rjwjhj fvzjq f vzj qfx fwrfx
fynjsijs, qfx hzfqjx ynjsjs utw tgojyt d kns qf ufe, vzj jx jq rfdtw gnjs
vzj qtx mtrgwjx uzjijs ijxjfw js jxyf anif. D fxí, qfx uwnrjwfx gzjsfx
szjafx vzj yzat jq rzsit d yzanjwts qtx mtrgwjx kzjwts qfx vzj injwts qtx
ásljqjx qf sthmj vzj kzj szjxywt iíf, hzfsit hfsyfwts js qtx fnwjx:
''Lqtwnf xjf js qfx fqyzwfx, d ufe js qf ynjwwf, f qtx mtrgwjx ij gzjsf
atqzsyfi''; d f qf xfqzyfhnós vzj jq rjotw rfjxywt ij qf ynjwwf d ijq hnjqt
jsxjñó f xzx fqqjlfitx d kfatwnitx, kzj ijhnwqjx vzj hzfsit jsywfxjs js
fqlzsf hfxf, inojxjs: ''Ufe xjf js jxyf hfxf''; d tywfx rzhmfx ajhjx qjx
inot: ''Rn ufe tx itd, rn ufe tx ijot: ufe xjf hts atxtywtx'', gnjs htrt
otdf d uwjsif ifif d ijofif ij yfq rfst; otdf vzj xns jqqf, js qf ynjwwf sn
js jq hnjqt uzjij mfgjw gnjs fqlzst. Jxyf ufe jx jq ajwifijwt kns ij qf
lzjwwf, vzj qt rjxrt jx ijhnw fwrfx vzj lzjwwf. Uwtxzuzjxyf, uzjx, jxyf
ajwifi, vzj jq kns ij qf lzjwwf jx qf ufe, d vzj js jxyt mfhj ajsyfof fq
kns ij qfx qjywfx, ajslfrtx fmtwf f qtx ywfgfotx ijq hzjwut ijq qjywfit d f
qtx ijq uwtkjxtw ij qfx fwrfx, d aéfxj hzáqjx xts rfdtwjx.

Ij yfq rfsjwf, d utw yfs gzjstx yéwrnstx, ngf uwtxnlznjsit js xz uqáynhf
its Vznotyj vzj tgqnló f vzj, utw jsytshjx, snslzst ij qtx vzj jxhzhmásitqj
jxyfgfs qj yzanjxj utw qtht; fsyjx, htrt ytitx qtx ráx jwfs hfgfqqjwtx, f
vznjs xts fsjofx qfx fwrfx, qj jxhzhmfgfs ij rzd gzjsf lfsf; d éq uwtxnlznó
inhnjsit:

-Inlt, uzjx, vzj qtx ywfgfotx ijq jxyzinfsyj xts éxytx: uwnshnufqrjsyj
utgwjef (st utwvzj ytitx xjfs utgwjx, xnst utw utsjw jxyj hfxt js ytit jq
jxywjrt vzj uzjif xjw); d, js mfgjw inhmt vzj ufijhj utgwjef, rj ufwjhj vzj
st mfgíf vzj ijhnw ráx ij xz rfqf ajsyzwf, utwvzj vznjs jx utgwj st ynjsj
htxf gzjsf. Jxyf utgwjef qf ufijhj utw xzx ufwyjx, df js mfrgwj, df js
kwít, df js ijxszije, df js ytit ozsyt; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, st jx yfsyf vzj
st htrf, fzsvzj xjf zs utht ráx yfwij ij qt vzj xj zxf, fzsvzj xjf ij qfx
xtgwfx ij qtx wnhtx; vzj jx qf rfdtw rnxjwnf ijq jxyzinfsyj éxyj vzj jsywj
jqqtx qqfrfs fsifw f qf xtuf; d st qjx kfqyf fqlús fojst gwfxjwt t
hmnrjsjf, vzj, xn st hfqqjsyf, f qt rjstx jsyngnj xz kwít, d, js kns, qf
sthmj izjwrjs ijgfot ij hzgnjwyf. St vznjwt qqjlfw f tywfx rjszijshnfx,
htsanjsj f xfgjw, ij qf kfqyf ij hfrnxfx d st xtgwf ij efufytx, qf wfwnifi
d utht ujqt ijq ajxynit, sn fvzjq fmnyfwxj hts yfsyt lzxyt, hzfsit qf gzjsf
xzjwyj qjx ijufwf fqlús gfsvzjyj. Utw jxyj hfrnst vzj mj unsyfit, áxujwt d
inknhzqytxt, ywtujefsit fvzí, hfdjsit fqqí, qjafsyásitxj fhzqqá, ytwsfsit f
hfjw fhá, qqjlfs fq lwfit vzj ijxjfs; jq hzfq fqhfsefit, f rzhmtx mjrtx
anxyt vzj, mfgnjsit ufxfit utw jxyfx Xnwyjx d utw jxyfx Xhnqfx d Hfwnginx,
htrt qqjafitx js azjqt ij qf kfatwfgqj ktwyzsf, inlt vzj qtx mjrtx anxyt
rfsifw d ltgjwsfw jq rzsit ijxij zsf xnqqf, ywthfif xz mfrgwj js mfwyzwf,
xz kwít js wjkwnljwnt, xz ijxszije js lfqfx, d xz itwrnw js zsf jxyjwf js
wjutxfw js mtqfsifx d ifrfxhtx: uwjrnt ozxyfrjsyj rjwjhnit ij xz anwyzi.
Ujwt, htsywfuzjxytx d htrufwfitx xzx ywfgfotx hts qtx ijq ríqnyj lzjwwjwt,
xj vzjifs rzd fywáx js ytit, htrt fmtwf inwé.





Hfuíyzqt CCCANNN. Vzj ywfyf ijq hzwntxt inxhzwxt vzj mnet its Vznotyj ij
qfx fwrfx d qfx qjywfx


Uwtxnlznjsit its Vznotyj, inot:

-Uzjx htrjsefrtx js jq jxyzinfsyj utw qf utgwjef d xzx ufwyjx, ajfrtx xn jx
ráx wnht jq xtqifit. D ajwjrtx vzj st mfd snslzst ráx utgwj js qf rnxrf
utgwjef, utwvzj jxyá fyjsnit f qf rnxjwnf ij xz uflf, vzj anjsj t yfwij t
szshf, t f qt vzj lfwgjfwj utw xzx rfstx, hts styfgqj ujqnlwt ij xz anif d
ij xz htshnjshnf. D f ajhjx xzjqj xjw xz ijxszije yfsyf, vzj zs htqjyt
fhzhmnqqfit qj xnwaj ij lfqf d ij hfrnxf, d js qf rnyfi ijq nsanjwst xj
xzjqj wjufwfw ij qfx nshqjrjshnfx ijq hnjqt, jxyfsit js qf hfrufñf wfxf,
hts xóqt jq fqnjsyt ij xz gthf, vzj, htrt xfqj ij qzlfw afhít, yjslt utw
fajwnlzfit vzj ijgj ij xfqnw kwít, htsywf ytif sfyzwfqjef. Uzjx jxujwfi vzj
jxujwj vzj qqjlzj qf sthmj, ufwf wjxyfzwfwxj ij ytifx jxyfx nshtrtinifijx,
js qf hfrf vzj qj flzfwif, qf hzfq, xn st jx utw xz hzquf, ofráx ujhfwá ij
jxywjhmf; vzj gnjs uzjij rjinw js qf ynjwwf qtx unjx vzj vznxnjwj, d
wjatqajwxj js jqqf f xz xfgtw, xns yjrtw vzj xj qj jshtofs qfx xágfsfx.
Qqélzjxj, uzjx, f ytit jxyt, jq iíf d qf mtwf ij wjhjgnw jq lwfit ij xz
jojwhnhnt; qqélzjxj zs iíf ij gfyfqqf, vzj fqqí qj utsiwás qf gtwqf js qf
hfgjef, mjhmf ij mnqfx, ufwf hzwfwqj fqlús gfqfet, vzj vzneá qj mfgwá
ufxfit qfx xnjsjx, t qj ijofwá jxywtujfit ij gwfet t unjwsf. D, hzfsit jxyt
st xzhjif, xnst vzj jq hnjqt unfitxt qj lzfwij d htsxjwaj xfst d anat,
utiwá xjw vzj xj vzjij js qf rjxrf utgwjef vzj fsyjx jxyfgf, d vzj xjf
rjsjxyjw vzj xzhjif zst d tywt wjshzjsywt, zsf d tywf gfyfqqf, d vzj ij
ytifx xfqlf ajshjitw, ufwf rjiwfw js fqlt; ujwt jxytx rnqflwtx ajsxj wfwfx
ajhjx. Ujwt, ijhnirj, xjñtwjx, xn mfgénx rnwfit js jqqt: ¿hzás rjstx xts
qtx uwjrnfitx utw qf lzjwwf vzj qtx vzj mfs ujwjhnit js jqqf? Xns izif,
mfgénx ij wjxutsijw vzj st ynjsjs htrufwfhnós, sn xj uzjijs wjizhnw f
hzjsyf qtx rzjwytx, d vzj xj utiwás htsyfw qtx uwjrnfitx anatx hts ywjx
qjywfx ij lzfwnxrt. Ytit jxyt jx fq wjaéx js qtx qjywfitx; utwvzj, ij
kfqifx, vzj st vznjwt ijhnw ij rfslfx, ytitx ynjsjs js vzé jsywjyjsjwxj.
Fxí vzj, fzsvzj jx rfdtw jq ywfgfot ijq xtqifit, jx rzhmt rjstw jq uwjrnt.
Ujwt f jxyt xj uzjij wjxutsijw vzj jx ráx káhnq uwjrnfw f itx rnq qjywfitx
vzj f ywjnsyf rnq xtqifitx, utwvzj f fvzéqqtx xj uwjrnfs hts ifwqjx
tknhntx, vzj utw kzjwef xj mfs ij ifw f qtx ij xz uwtkjxnós, d f éxytx st
xj uzjijs uwjrnfw xnst hts qf rjxrf mfhnjsif ijq xjñtw f vznjs xnwajs; d
jxyf nrutxngnqnifi ktwynknhf ráx qf wfeós vzj yjslt. Ujwt ijojrtx jxyt
fufwyj, vzj jx qfgjwnsyt ij rzd inknhzqytxf xfqnif, xnst atqafrtx f qf
uwjjrnsjshnf ij qfx fwrfx htsywf qfx qjywfx, rfyjwnf vzj mfxyf fmtwf jxyá
utw fajwnlzfw, xjlús xts qfx wfetsjx vzj hfif zsf ij xz ufwyj fqjlf. D,
jsywj qfx vzj mj inhmt, inhjs qfx qjywfx vzj xns jqqfx st xj utiwífs
xzxyjsyfw qfx fwrfx, utwvzj qf lzjwwf yfrgnés ynjsj xzx qjdjx d jxyá xzojyf
f jqqfx, d vzj qfx qjdjx hfjs ijgfot ij qt vzj xts qjywfx d qjywfitx. F
jxyt wjxutsijs qfx fwrfx vzj qfx qjdjx st xj utiwás xzxyjsyfw xns jqqfx,
utwvzj hts qfx fwrfx xj ijknjsijs qfx wjuúgqnhfx, xj htsxjwafs qtx wjnstx,
xj lzfwifs qfx hnzifijx, xj fxjlzwfs qtx hfrnstx, xj ijxujofs qtx rfwjx ij
htxfwntx; d, knsfqrjsyj, xn utw jqqfx st kzjxj, qfx wjuúgqnhfx, qtx wjnstx,
qfx rtsfwvzífx, qfx hnzifijx, qtx hfrnstx ij rfw d ynjwwf jxyfwífs xzojytx
fq wnltw d f qf htskzxnós vzj ywfj htsxnlt qf lzjwwf jq ynjrut vzj izwf d
ynjsj qnhjshnf ij zxfw ij xzx uwjanqjlntx d ij xzx kzjwefx. D jx wfeós
fajwnlzfif vzj fvzjqqt vzj ráx hzjxyf xj jxynrf d ijgj ij jxynrfw js ráx.
Fqhfsefw fqlzst f xjw jrnsjsyj js qjywfx qj hzjxyf ynjrut, anlnqnfx,
mfrgwj, ijxszije, aálznitx ij hfgjef, nsinljxyntsjx ij jxyórflt, d tywfx
htxfx f éxyfx fimjwjsyjx, vzj, js ufwyj, df qfx yjslt wjkjwnifx; rfx qqjlfw
zst utw xzx yéwrnstx f xjw gzjs xtqifit qj hzjxyf ytit qt vzj f jq
jxyzinfsyj, js yfsyt rfdtw lwfit vzj st ynjsj htrufwfhnós, utwvzj f hfif
ufxt jxyá f unvzj ij ujwijw qf anif. D ¿vzé yjrtw ij sjhjxnifi d utgwjef
uzjij qqjlfw sn kfynlfw fq jxyzinfsyj, vzj qqjlzj fq vzj ynjsj zs xtqifit,
vzj, mfqqásitxj hjwhfit js fqlzsf kzjwef, d jxyfsit ij utxyf, t lzfwif, js
fqlús wjajqqís t hfgfqqjwt, xnjsyj vzj qtx jsjrnltx jxyás rnsfsit mfhnf qf
ufwyj itsij éq jxyá, d st uzjij fufwyfwxj ij fqqí utw snslús hfxt, sn mznw
jq ujqnlwt vzj ij yfs hjwhf qj frjsfef? Xóqt qt vzj uzjij mfhjw jx ifw
stynhnf f xz hfunyás ij qt vzj ufxf, ufwf vzj qt wjrjinj hts fqlzsf
htsywfrnsf, d éq jxyfwxj vzjit, yjrnjsit d jxujwfsit hzásit nruwtanxfrjsyj
mf ij xzgnw f qfx szgjx xns fqfx d gfofw fq uwtkzsit xns xz atqzsyfi. D xn
éxyj ufwjhj ujvzjñt ujqnlwt, ajfrtx xn qj nlzfqf t mfhj ajsyfofx jq ij
jrgjxynwxj itx lfqjwfx utw qfx uwtfx js rnyfi ijq rfw jxufhntxt, qfx hzfqjx
jshqfanofifx d ywfgfifx, st qj vzjif fq xtqifit ráx jxufhnt ijq vzj htshjij
itx unjx ij yfgqf ijq jxutqós; d, hts ytit jxyt, anjsit vzj ynjsj ijqfsyj
ij xí yfsytx rnsnxywtx ij qf rzjwyj vzj qj frjsfefs hzfsytx hfñtsjx ij
fwynqqjwíf xj fxjxyfs ij qf ufwyj htsywfwnf, vzj st inxyfs ij xz hzjwut zsf
qfsef, d anjsit vzj fq uwnrjw ijxhznit ij qtx unjx nwíf f anxnyfw qtx
uwtkzsitx xjstx ij Sjuyzst; d, hts ytit jxyt, hts nsywéunit htwfeós,
qqjafit ij qf mtswf vzj qj nshnyf, xj utsj f xjw gqfsht ij yfsyf
fwhfgzhjwíf, d uwthzwf ufxfw utw yfs jxywjhmt ufxt fq gfojq htsywfwnt. D qt
vzj ráx jx ij firnwfw: vzj fujsfx zst mf hfíit itsij st xj utiwá qjafsyfw
mfxyf qf kns ijq rzsit, hzfsit tywt thzuf xz rjxrt qzlfw; d xn éxyj yfrgnés
hfj js jq rfw, vzj htrt f jsjrnlt qj flzfwif, tywt d tywt qj xzhjij, xns
ifw ynjrut fq ynjrut ij xzx rzjwyjx: afqjsyíf d fywjanrnjsyt jq rfdtw vzj
xj uzjij mfqqfw js ytitx qtx ywfshjx ij qf lzjwwf. Gnjs mfdfs fvzjqqtx
gjsinytx xnlqtx vzj hfwjhnjwts ij qf jxufsyfgqj kzwnf ij fvzjxytx
jsijrtsnfitx nsxywzrjsytx ij qf fwynqqjwíf, f hzdt nsajsytw yjslt ufwf rí
vzj js jq nsknjwst xj qj jxyá ifsit jq uwjrnt ij xz infgóqnhf nsajshnós,
hts qf hzfq int hfzxf vzj zs nskfrj d htgfwij gwfet vznyj qf anif f zs
afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, d vzj, xns xfgjw hórt t utw iósij, js qf rnyfi ijq
htwfoj d gwít vzj jshnjsij d fsnrf f qtx afqnjsyjx ujhmtx, qqjlf zsf
ijxrfsifif gfqf, inxufwfif ij vznjs vzneá mzdó d xj jxufsyó ijq wjxuqfsitw
vzj mnet jq kzjlt fq inxufwfw ij qf rfqinyf rávznsf, d htwyf d fhfgf js zs
nsxyfsyj qtx ujsxfrnjsytx d anif ij vznjs qf rjwjhíf ltefw qzjsltx xnlqtx.
D fxí, htsxnijwfsit jxyt, jxytd utw ijhnw vzj js jq fqrf rj ujxf ij mfgjw
ytrfit jxyj jojwhnhnt ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj js jifi yfs ijyjxyfgqj htrt jx
jxyf js vzj fmtwf ananrtx; utwvzj, fzsvzj f rí snslús ujqnlwt rj utsj
rnjit, ytifaíf rj utsj wjhjqt ujsxfw xn qf uóqatwf d jq jxyfñt rj mfs ij
vznyfw qf thfxnós ij mfhjwrj kfrtxt d htsthnit utw jq afqtw ij rn gwfet d
knqtx ij rn jxufif, utw ytit qt ijxhzgnjwyt ij qf ynjwwf. Ujwt mflf jq
hnjqt qt vzj kzjwj xjwanit, vzj yfsyt xjwé ráx jxynrfit, xn xfqlt hts qt
vzj uwjyjsit, hzfsyt f rfdtwjx ujqnlwtx rj mj uzjxyt vzj xj uzxnjwts qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ij qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx.

Ytit jxyj qfwlt uwjárgzqt inot its Vznotyj, js yfsyt vzj qtx ijráx hjsfgfs,
tqaniásitxj ij qqjafw gthfit f qf gthf, uzjxyt vzj fqlzsfx ajhjx qj mfgíf
inhmt Xfshmt Ufsef vzj hjsfxj, vzj ijxuzéx mfgwíf qzlfw ufwf ijhnw ytit qt
vzj vznxnjxj. Js qtx vzj jxhzhmfit qj mfgífs xtgwjanst szjaf qáxynrf ij ajw
vzj mtrgwj vzj, fq ufwjhjw, yjsíf gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt d gzjs inxhzwxt js
ytifx qfx htxfx vzj ywfyfgf, qj mzgnjxj ujwinit yfs wjrfyfifrjsyj, js
ywfyásitqj ij xz sjlwf d unernjsyf hfgfqqjwíf. Jq hzwf qj inot vzj yjsíf
rzhmf wfeós js ytit hzfsyt mfgíf inhmt js kfatw ij qfx fwrfx, d vzj éq,
fzsvzj qjywfit d lwfizfit, jxyfgf ij xz rjxrt ufwjhjw.

Fhfgfwts ij hjsfw, qjafsyfwts qtx rfsyjqjx, d, js yfsyt vzj qf ajsyjwf, xz
mnof d Rfwnytwsjx fijwjefgfs jq hfrfwfshmós ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
itsij mfgífs ijyjwrnsfit vzj fvzjqqf sthmj qfx rzojwjx xtqfx js éq xj
wjhtlnjxjs, its Kjwsfsit wtló fq hfzynat qjx htsyfxj jq inxhzwxt ij xz
anif, utwvzj st utiwíf xjw xnst vzj kzjxj ujwjlwnst d lzxytxt, xjlús qfx
rzjxywfx vzj mfgíf htrjsefit f ifw, ansnjsit js htrufñíf ij Etwfnif. F qt
hzfq wjxutsinó jq hfzynat vzj ij rzd gzjsf lfsf mfwíf qt vzj xj qj rfsifgf,
d vzj xóqt yjríf vzj jq hzjsyt st mfgíf ij xjw yfq, vzj qjx injxj jq lzxyt
vzj éq ijxjfgf; ujwt vzj, hts ytit jxt, utw st kfqyfw js tgjijhjqqj, qj
htsyfwíf. Jq hzwf d ytitx qtx ijráx xj qt flwfijhnjwts, d ij szjat xj qt
wtlfwts; d éq, anésitxj wtlfw ij yfsytx, inot vzj st jwfs rjsjxyjw wzjltx
fitsij jq rfsifw yjsíf yfsyf kzjwef.

-D fxí, jxyés azjxywfx rjwhjijx fyjsytx, d tnwás zs inxhzwxt ajwifijwt, f
vznjs utiwíf xjw vzj st qqjlfxjs qtx rjsynwtxtx vzj hts hzwntxt d ujsxfit
fwynknhnt xzjqjs htrutsjwxj.

Hts jxyt vzj inot, mnet vzj ytitx xj fhtrtifxjs d qj uwjxyfxjs zs lwfsij
xnqjshnt; d éq, anjsit vzj df hfqqfgfs d jxujwfgfs qt vzj ijhnw vznxnjxj,
hts ate flwfifgqj d wjutxfif, htrjseó f ijhnw ijxyf rfsjwf:





Hfuíyzqt CCCNC. Itsij jq hfzynat hzjsyf xz anif d xzhjxtx


-«Js zs qzlfw ij qfx Rtsyfñfx ij Qjós yzat uwnshnunt rn qnsfoj, hts vznjs
kzj ráx flwfijhnif d qngjwfq qf sfyzwfqjef vzj qf ktwyzsf, fzsvzj, js qf
jxywjhmjef ij fvzjqqtx uzjgqtx, ytifaíf fqhfsefgf rn ufiwj kfrf ij wnht, d
ajwifijwfrjsyj qt kzjwf xn fxí xj injwf rfñf f htsxjwafw xz mfhnjsif htrt
xj qf ifgf js lfxyfqqf. D qf htsinhnós vzj yjsíf ij xjw qngjwfq d lfxyfitw
qj uwthjinó ij mfgjw xnit xtqifit qtx fñtx ij xz otajsyzi, vzj jx jxhzjqf
qf xtqifijxhf itsij jq rjevznst xj mfhj kwfsht, d jq kwfsht, uwóinlt; d xn
fqlzstx xtqifitx xj mfqqfs rnxjwfgqjx, xts htrt rtsxywztx, vzj xj ajs wfwfx
ajhjx. Ufxfgf rn ufiwj qtx yéwrnstx ij qf qngjwfqnifi, d wfdfgf js qtx ij
xjw uwóinlt: htxf vzj st qj jx ij snslús uwtajhmt fq mtrgwj hfxfit, d vzj
ynjsj mnotx vzj qj mfs ij xzhjijw js jq strgwj d js jq xjw. Qtx vzj rn
ufiwj yjsíf jwfs ywjx, ytitx afwtsjx d ytitx ij jifi ij utijw jqjlnw
jxyfit. Anjsit, uzjx, rn ufiwj vzj, xjlús éq ijhíf, st utiíf nwxj f qf rfst
htsywf xz htsinhnós, vznxt uwnafwxj ijq nsxywzrjsyt d hfzxf vzj qj mfhíf
lfxyfitw d ifinatxt, vzj kzj uwnafwxj ij qf mfhnjsif, xns qf hzfq jq rnxrt
Fqjofsiwt ufwjhnjwf jxywjhmt.

»D fxí, qqfrásitstx zs iíf f ytitx ywjx f xtqfx js zs futxjsyt, stx inot
zsfx wfetsjx xjrjofsyjx f qfx vzj fmtwf inwé: ''Mnotx, ufwf ijhnwtx vzj tx
vznjwt gnjs, gfxyf xfgjw d ijhnw vzj xtnx rnx mnotx; d, ufwf jsyjsijw vzj
tx vznjwt rfq, gfxyf xfgjw vzj st rj atd f qf rfst js qt vzj ythf f
htsxjwafw azjxywf mfhnjsif. Uzjx, ufwf vzj jsyjsiánx ijxij fvzí fijqfsyj
vzj tx vznjwt htrt ufiwj, d vzj st tx vznjwt ijxywznw htrt ufiwfxywt,
vznjwt mfhjw zsf htxf hts atxtywtx vzj mf rzhmtx iífx vzj qf yjslt ujsxfif
d hts rfizwf htsxnijwfhnós inxuzjxyf. Atxtywtx jxyánx df js jifi ij ytrfw
jxyfit, t, f qt rjstx, ij jqjlnw jojwhnhnt, yfq vzj, hzfsit rfdtwjx, tx
mtswj d fuwtajhmj. D qt vzj mj ujsxfit jx mfhjw ij rn mfhnjsif hzfywt
ufwyjx: qfx ywjx tx ifwé f atxtywtx, f hfif zst qt vzj qj ythfwj, xns
jchjijw js htxf fqlzsf, d hts qf tywf rj vzjifwé dt ufwf ananw d
xzxyjsyfwrj qtx iífx vzj jq hnjqt kzjwj xjwanit ij ifwrj ij anif. Ujwt
vzjwwíf vzj, ijxuzéx vzj hfif zst yzanjxj js xz utijw qf ufwyj vzj qj ythf
ij xz mfhnjsif, xnlznjxj zst ij qtx hfrnstx vzj qj inwé. Mfd zs wjkwás js
szjxywf Jxufñf, f rn ufwjhjw rzd ajwifijwt, htrt ytitx qt xts, utw xjw
xjsyjshnfx gwjajx xfhfifx ij qf qzjslf d inxhwjyf jcujwnjshnf; d jq vzj dt
inlt inhj: "Nlqjxnf, t rfw, t hfxf wjfq", htrt xn ráx hqfwfrjsyj inojwf:
"Vznjs vznxnjwj afqjw d xjw wnht, xnlf t qf Nlqjxnf, t sfajlzj, jojwhnyfsit
jq fwyj ij qf rjwhfshíf, t jsywj f xjwanw f qtx wjdjx js xzx hfxfx"; utwvzj
inhjs: "Ráx afqj rnlfof ij wjd vzj rjwhji ij xjñtw". Inlt jxyt utwvzj
vzjwwíf, d jx rn atqzsyfi, vzj zst ij atxtywtx xnlznjxj qfx qjywfx, jq tywt
qf rjwhfshíf, d jq tywt xnwanjxj fq wjd js qf lzjwwf, uzjx jx inknhzqytxt
jsywfw f xjwanwqj js xz hfxf; vzj, df vzj qf lzjwwf st ié rzhmfx wnvzjefx,
xzjqj ifw rzhmt afqtw d rzhmf kfrf. Ijsywt ij thmt iífx, tx ifwé ytif
azjxywf ufwyj js insjwtx, xns ijkwfzifwtx js zs fwinyj, htrt qt ajwénx utw
qf tgwf. Ijhnirj fmtwf xn vzjwénx xjlznw rn ufwjhjw d htsxjot js qt vzj tx
mj uwtuzjxyt''. D, rfsiásitrj f rí, utw xjw jq rfdtw, vzj wjxutsinjxj,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj inhmt vzj st xj ijxmnhnjxj ij qf mfhnjsif, xnst vzj
lfxyfxj ytit qt vzj kzjxj xz atqzsyfi, vzj stxtywtx éwfrtx rtetx ufwf xfgjw
lfsfwqf, ansj f htshqznw js vzj hzruqnwíf xz lzxyt, d vzj jq rít jwf xjlznw
jq jojwhnhnt ij qfx fwrfx, xnwanjsit js éq f Intx d f rn wjd. Jq xjlzsit
mjwrfst mnet qtx rjxrtx tkwjhnrnjsytx, d jxhtlnó jq nwxj f qfx Nsinfx,
qqjafsit jruqjfif qf mfhnjsif vzj qj hzunjxj. Jq rjstw, d, f qt vzj dt
hwjt, jq ráx inxhwjyt, inot vzj vzjwíf xjlznw qf Nlqjxnf, t nwxj f fhfgfw
xzx htrjsefitx jxyzintx f Xfqfrfshf. Fxí htrt fhfgfrtx ij htshtwifwstx d
jxhtljw szjxywtx jojwhnhntx, rn ufiwj stx fgwfeó f ytitx, d, hts qf
gwjajifi vzj inot, uzxt utw tgwf hzfsyt stx mfgíf uwtrjynit; d, ifsit f
hfif zst xz ufwyj, vzj, f qt vzj xj rj fhzjwif, kzjwts hfif ywjx rnq
izhfitx, js insjwtx (utwvzj zs szjxywt yít htruwó ytif qf mfhnjsif d qf
ufló ij htsyfit, utwvzj st xfqnjxj ijq ywtsht ij qf hfxf), js zs rjxrt iíf
stx ijxujinrtx ytitx ywjx ij szjxywt gzjs ufiwj; d, js fvzjq rjxrt,
ufwjhnésitrj f rí xjw nsmzrfsnifi vzj rn ufiwj vzjifxj anjot d hts yfs uthf
mfhnjsif, mnhj hts éq vzj ij rnx ywjx rnq ytrfxj qtx itx rnq izhfitx,
utwvzj f rí rj gfxyfgf jq wjxyt ufwf fhtrtifwrj ij qt vzj mfgíf rjsjxyjw zs
xtqifit. Rnx itx mjwrfstx, rtanitx ij rn jojruqt, hfif zst qj int rnq
izhfitx: ij rtit vzj f rn ufiwj qj vzjifwts hzfywt rnq js insjwtx, d ráx
ywjx rnq, vzj, f qt vzj ufwjhj, afqíf qf mfhnjsif vzj qj hzut, vzj st vznxt
ajsijw, xnst vzjifwxj hts jqqf js wfíhjx. Inlt, js kns, vzj stx ijxujinrtx
iéq d ij fvzjq szjxywt yít vzj mj inhmt, st xns rzhmt xjsynrnjsyt d
qálwnrfx ij ytitx, jshfwlásitstx vzj qjx mnhnéxjrtx xfgjw, ytifx qfx ajhjx
vzj mzgnjxj htrtinifi ufwf jqqt, ij szjxywtx xzhjxtx, uwóxujwtx t fiajwxtx.
Uwtrjyírtxxjqt, d, fgwfeásitstx d jhmásitstx xz gjsinhnós, jq zst ytró jq
anfoj ij Xfqfrfshf, jq tywt ij Xjanqqf d dt jq ij Fqnhfsyj, fitsij yzaj
szjafx vzj mfgíf zsf sfaj lnstajxf vzj hfwlfgf fqqí qfsf ufwf Léstaf.

»Éxyj mfwá ajnsyj d itx fñtx vzj xfqí ij hfxf ij rn ufiwj, d js ytitx
jqqtx, uzjxyt vzj mj jxhwnyt fqlzsfx hfwyfx, st mj xfgnit iéq sn ij rnx
mjwrfstx szjaf fqlzsf. D qt vzj js jxyj inxhzwxt ij ynjrut mj ufxfit qt
inwé gwjajrjsyj. Jrgfwvzérj js Fqnhfsyj, qqjlzé hts uwóxujwt anfoj f
Léstaf, kzn ijxij fqqí f Rnqás, itsij rj fhtrtié ij fwrfx d ij fqlzsfx
lfqfx ij xtqifit, ij itsij vznxj nw f fxjsyfw rn uqfef fq Unfrtsyj; d,
jxyfsit df ij hfrnst ufwf Fqjofsiwíf ij qf Ufqqf, yzaj szjafx vzj jq lwfs
izvzj ij Fqgf ufxfgf f Kqfsijx. Rzié uwtuóxnyt, kznrj hts éq, xjwaíqj js
qfx otwsfifx vzj mnet, mfqqérj js qf rzjwyj ij qtx htsijx ij Jlzjrós d ij
Mtwstx, fqhfshé f xjw fqkéwje ij zs kfrtxt hfunyás ij Lzfifqfofwf, qqfrfit
Injlt ij Zwgnsf; d, f hfgt ij fqlús ynjrut vzj qqjlzé f Kqfsijx, xj yzat
szjafx ij qf qnlf vzj qf Xfsynifi ijq Ufuf Uít Vznsyt, ij kjqnhj
wjhtwifhnós, mfgíf mjhmt hts Ajsjhnf d hts Jxufñf, htsywf jq jsjrnlt htrús,
vzj jx jq Yzwht; jq hzfq, js fvzjq rjxrt ynjrut, mfgíf lfsfit hts xz fwrfif
qf kfrtxf nxqf ij Hmnuwj, vzj jxyfgf ijgfot ijq itrnsnt ijq ajsjhnfst: d
uéwinif qfrjsyfgqj d ijxinhmfif. Xúutxj hnjwyt vzj ajsíf utw ljsjwfq ijxyf
qnlf jq xjwjsíxnrt its Ozfs ij Fzxywnf, mjwrfst sfyzwfq ij szjxywt gzjs wjd
its Kjqnuj. Inazqlóxj jq lwfsiíxnrt fufwfyt ij lzjwwf vzj xj mfhíf. Ytit qt
hzfq rj nshnyó d htsrtanó jq ásnrt d jq ijxjt ij ajwrj js qf otwsfif vzj xj
jxujwfgf; d, fzsvzj yjsíf gfwwzsytx, d hfxn uwtrjxfx hnjwyfx, ij vzj js qf
uwnrjwf thfxnós vzj xj tkwjhnjxj xjwíf uwtrtanit f hfunyás, qt vznxj ijofw
ytit d ajsnwrj, htrt rj ansj, f Nyfqnf. D vznxt rn gzjsf xzjwyj vzj jq
xjñtw its Ozfs ij Fzxywnf fhfgfgf ij qqjlfw f Léstaf, vzj ufxfgf f Sáutqjx
f ozsyfwxj hts qf fwrfif ij Ajsjhnf, htrt ijxuzéx qt mnet js Rjhnsf.

»Inlt, js kns, vzj dt rj mfqqé js fvzjqqf kjqnhíxnrf otwsfif, df mjhmt
hfunyás ij nskfsyjwíf, f hzdt mtswtxt hfwlt rj xzgnó rn gzjsf xzjwyj, ráx
vzj rnx rjwjhnrnjsytx. D fvzjq iíf, vzj kzj ufwf qf hwnxynfsifi yfs
inhmtxt, utwvzj js éq xj ijxjslfñó jq rzsit d ytifx qfx sfhntsjx ijq jwwtw
js vzj jxyfgfs, hwjdjsit vzj qtx yzwhtx jwfs nsajshngqjx utw qf rfw: js
fvzjq iíf, inlt, itsij vzjió jq twlzqqt d xtgjwgnf tytrfsf vzjgwfsyfif,
jsywj yfsytx ajsyzwtxtx htrt fqqí mzgt (utwvzj ráx ajsyzwf yzanjwts qtx
hwnxynfstx vzj fqqí rzwnjwts vzj qtx vzj anatx d ajshjitwjx vzjifwts), dt
xtqt kzn jq ijxinhmfit, uzjx, js hfrgnt ij vzj uzinjwf jxujwfw, xn kzjwf js
qtx wtrfstx xnlqtx, fqlzsf sfafq htwtsf, rj an fvzjqqf sthmj vzj xnlznó f
yfs kfrtxt iíf hts hfijsfx f qtx unjx d jxutxfx f qfx rfstx.

»D kzj ijxyf xzjwyj: vzj, mfgnjsit jq Zhmfqí, wjd ij Fwljq, fywjanit d
ajsyzwtxt htxfwnt, jrgjxynit d wjsinit qf hfunyfsf ij Rfqyf, vzj xtqtx ywjx
hfgfqqjwtx vzjifwts anatx js jqqf, d éxytx rfqmjwnitx, fhzinó qf hfunyfsf
ij Ozfs Fsiwjf f xthtwwjqqf, js qf hzfq dt ngf hts rn htrufñíf; d, mfhnjsit
qt vzj ijgíf js thfxnós xjrjofsyj, xfqyé js qf lfqjwf htsywfwnf, qf hzfq,
ijxanásitxj ij qf vzj qf mfgíf jrgjxynit, jxytwgó vzj rnx xtqifitx rj
xnlznjxjs, d fxí, rj mfqqé xtqt jsywj rnx jsjrnltx, f vznjs st uzij
wjxnxynw, utw xjw yfsytx; js kns, rj wnsinjwts qqjst ij mjwnifx. D, htrt df
mfgwénx, xjñtwjx, tíit ijhnw vzj jq Zhmfqí xj xfqaó hts ytif xz jxhzfiwf,
ansj dt f vzjifw hfzynat js xz utijw, d xtqt kzn jq ywnxyj jsywj yfsytx
fqjlwjx d jq hfzynat jsywj yfsytx qngwjx; utwvzj kzjwts vznshj rnq
hwnxynfstx qtx vzj fvzjq iíf fqhfsefwts qf ijxjfif qngjwyfi, vzj ytitx
ajsífs fq wjrt js qf yzwvzjxhf fwrfif.

»Qqjaáwtsrj f Htxyfsynstuqf, itsij jq Lwfs Yzwht Xjqnr mnet ljsjwfq ij qf
rfw f rn frt, utwvzj mfgíf mjhmt xz ijgjw js qf gfyfqqf, mfgnjsit qqjafit
utw rzjxywf ij xz afqtw jq jxyfsifwyj ij qf wjqnlnós ij Rfqyf. Mfqqérj jq
xjlzsit fñt, vzj kzj jq ij xjyjsyf d itx, js Sfafwnst, gtlfsit js qf
hfunyfsf ij qtx ywjx kfsfqjx. An d styé qf thfxnós vzj fqqí xj ujwinó ij st
htljw js jq uzjwyt ytif jq fwrfif yzwvzjxhf, utwvzj ytitx qtx qjajsyjx d
ojsíefwtx vzj js jqqf ajsífs yzanjwts utw hnjwyt vzj qjx mfgífs ij jrgjxynw
ijsywt ijq rjxrt uzjwyt, d yjsífs f uzsyt xz wtuf d ufxfrfvzjx, vzj xts xzx
efufytx, ufwf mznwxj qzjlt utw ynjwwf, xns jxujwfw xjw htrgfynitx: yfsyt
jwf jq rnjit vzj mfgífs htgwfit f szjxywf fwrfif. Ujwt jq hnjqt qt twijsó
ij tywf rfsjwf, st utw hzquf sn ijxhznit ijq ljsjwfq vzj f qtx szjxywtx
wjlíf, xnst utw qtx ujhfitx ij qf hwnxynfsifi, d utwvzj vznjwj d ujwrnyj
Intx vzj yjslfrtx xnjruwj ajwizltx vzj stx hfxynlzjs.

»Js jkjyt, jq Zhmfqí xj wjhtlnó f Rtiós, vzj jx zsf nxqf vzj jxyá ozsyt f
Sfafwnst, d, jhmfsit qf ljsyj js ynjwwf, ktwynknhó qf gthf ijq uzjwyt, d
jxyúatxj vzjit mfxyf vzj jq xjñtw its Ozfs xj atqanó. Js jxyj anfoj xj ytró
qf lfqjwf vzj xj qqfrfgf Qf Uwjxf, ij vznjs jwf hfunyás zs mnot ij fvzjq
kfrtxt htxfwnt Gfwgfwwtof. Ytróqf qf hfunyfsf ij Sáutqjx, qqfrfif Qf Qtgf,
wjlnif utw fvzjq wfdt ij qf lzjwwf, utw jq ufiwj ij qtx xtqifitx, utw fvzjq
ajsyzwtxt d ofráx ajshnit hfunyás its Áqafwt ij Gfeás, rfwvzéx ij Xfsyf
Hwze. D st vznjwt ijofw ij ijhnw qt vzj xzhjinó js qf uwjxf ij Qf Uwjxf.
Jwf yfs hwzjq jq mnot ij Gfwgfwwtof, d ywfyfgf yfs rfq f xzx hfzynatx, vzj,
fxí htrt qtx vzj ajsífs fq wjrt anjwts vzj qf lfqjwf Qtgf qjx ngf jsywfsit
d vzj qtx fqhfsefgf, xtqyfwts ytitx f zs ynjrut qtx wjrtx, d fxnjwts ij xz
hfunyás, vzj jxyfgf xtgwj jq jxyfsyjwtq lwnyfsit vzj gtlfxjs fuwnjxf, d
ufxásitqj ij gfsht js gfsht, ij utuf f uwtf, qj injwts gthfitx, vzj f utht
ráx vzj ufxó ijq áwgtq df mfgíf ufxfit xz ásnrf fq nsknjwst: yfq jwf, htrt
mj inhmt, qf hwzjqifi hts vzj qtx ywfyfgf d jq tint vzj jqqtx qj yjsífs.

»Atqanrtx f Htsxyfsynstuqf, d jq fñt xnlznjsyj, vzj kzj jq ij xjyjsyf d
ywjx, xj xzut js jqqf hórt jq xjñtw its Ozfs mfgíf lfsfit f Yúsje, d
vznyfit fvzjq wjnst f qtx yzwhtx d uzjxyt js utxjxnós iéq f Rzqjd Mfrjy,
htwyfsit qfx jxujwfsefx vzj ij atqajw f wjnsfw js éq yjsíf Rzqjd Mfrnif, jq
rtwt ráx hwzjq d ráx afqnjsyj vzj yzat jq rzsit. Xnsynó rzhmt jxyf uéwinif
jq Lwfs Yzwht, d, zxfsit ij qf xflfhnifi vzj ytitx qtx ij xz hfxf ynjsjs,
mnet ufe hts ajsjhnfstx, vzj rzhmt ráx vzj éq qf ijxjfgfs; d jq fñt
xnlznjsyj ij xjyjsyf d hzfywt fhtrjynó f qf Ltqjyf d fq kzjwyj vzj ozsyt f
Yúsje mfgíf ijofit rjint qjafsyfit jq xjñtw its Ozfs. Js ytitx jxytx
ywfshjx fsifgf dt fq wjrt, xns jxujwfsef ij qngjwyfi fqlzsf; f qt rjstx, st
jxujwfgf yjsjwqf utw wjxhfyj, utwvzj yjsíf ijyjwrnsfit ij st jxhwngnw qfx
szjafx ij rn ijxlwfhnf f rn ufiwj.

»Ujwinóxj, js kns, qf Ltqjyf; ujwinóxj jq kzjwyj, xtgwj qfx hzfqjx uqfefx
mzgt ij xtqifitx yzwhtx, uflfitx, xjyjsyf d hnsht rnq, d ij rtwtx, d
fqáwfgjx ij ytif qf Fkwnhf, ráx ij hzfywthnjsytx rnq, fhtrufñfit jxyj yfs
lwfs súrjwt ij ljsyj hts yfsyfx rzsnhntsjx d ujwywjhmtx ij lzjwwf, d hts
yfsytx lfxyfitwjx, vzj hts qfx rfstx d f uzñfitx ij ynjwwf uzinjwfs hzgwnw
qf Ltqjyf d jq kzjwyj. Ujwinóxj uwnrjwt qf Ltqjyf, yjsnif mfxyf jsytshjx
utw nsjcuzlsfgqj; d st xj ujwinó utw hzquf ij xzx ijkjsxtwjx, qtx hzfqjx
mnhnjwts js xz ijkjsxf ytit fvzjqqt vzj ijgífs d utiífs, xnst utwvzj qf
jcujwnjshnf rtxywó qf kfhnqnifi hts vzj xj utiífs qjafsyfw ywnshmjfx js
fvzjqqf ijxnjwyf fwjsf, utwvzj f itx ufqrtx xj mfqqfgf flzf, d qtx yzwhtx
st qf mfqqfwts f itx afwfx; d fxí, hts rzhmtx xfhtx ij fwjsf qjafsyfwts qfx
ywnshmjfx yfs fqyfx vzj xtgwjuzofgfs qfx rzwfqqfx ij qf kzjwef; d,
ynwásitqjx f hfgfqqjwt, snslzst utiíf ufwfw, sn fxnxynw f qf ijkjsxf. Kzj
htrús tunsnós vzj st xj mfgífs ij jshjwwfw qtx szjxywtx js qf Ltqjyf, xnst
jxujwfw js hfrufñf fq ijxjrgfwhfijwt; d qtx vzj jxyt inhjs mfgqfs ij qjotx
d hts uthf jcujwnjshnf ij hfxtx xjrjofsyjx, utwvzj xn js qf Ltqjyf d js jq
kzjwyj fujsfx mfgíf xnjyj rnq xtqifitx, ¿hórt utiíf yfs utht súrjwt, fzsvzj
ráx jxktwefitx kzjxjs, xfqnw f qf hfrufñf d vzjifw js qfx kzjwefx, htsywf
yfsyt htrt jwf jq ij qtx jsjrnltx?; d ¿hórt jx utxngqj ijofw ij ujwijwxj
kzjwef vzj st jx xthtwwnif, d ráx hzfsit qf hjwhfs jsjrnltx rzhmtx d
utwknfitx, d js xz rjxrf ynjwwf? Ujwt f rzhmtx qjx ufwjhnó, d fxí rj
ufwjhnó f rí, vzj kzj ufwynhzqfw lwfhnf d rjwhji vzj jq hnjqt mnet f Jxufñf
js ujwrnynw vzj xj fxtqfxj fvzjqqf tknhnsf d hfuf ij rfqifijx, d fvzjqqf
ltrnf t jxutsof d utqnqqf ij qf nsknsnifi ij insjwtx vzj fqqí xns uwtajhmt
xj lfxyfgfs, xns xjwanw ij tywf htxf vzj ij htsxjwafw qf rjrtwnf ij mfgjwqf
lfsfit qf kjqnhíxnrf ijq nsanhyíxnrt Hfwqtx Vznsyt; htrt xn kzjwf rjsjxyjw
ufwf mfhjwqf jyjwsf, htrt qt jx d xjwá, vzj fvzjqqfx unjiwfx qf
xzxyjsyfwfs.

»Ujwinóxj yfrgnés jq kzjwyj; ujwt kzéwtsqj lfsfsit qtx yzwhtx ufqrt f
ufqrt, utwvzj qtx xtqifitx vzj qt ijkjsiífs ujqjfwts yfs afqjwtxf d
kzjwyjrjsyj, vzj ufxfwts ij ajnsyj d hnsht rnq jsjrnltx qtx vzj rfyfwts js
ajnsyj d itx fxfqytx ljsjwfqjx vzj qjx injwts. Snslzst hfzynafwts xfst ij
ywjhnjsytx vzj vzjifwts anatx, xjñfq hnjwyf d hqfwf ij xz jxkzjwet d afqtw,
d ij qt gnjs vzj xj mfgífs ijkjsinit d lzfwifit xzx uqfefx. Wnsinóxj f
ufwynit zs ujvzjñt kzjwyj t ytwwj vzj jxyfgf js rnyfi ijq jxyfñt, f hfwlt
ij its Ozfs Efstlzjwf, hfgfqqjwt afqjshnfst d kfrtxt xtqifit. Hfzynafwts f
its Ujiwt Uzjwythfwwjwt, ljsjwfq ij qf Ltqjyf, jq hzfq mnet hzfsyt kzj
utxngqj utw ijkjsijw xz kzjwef; d xnsynó yfsyt jq mfgjwqf ujwinit vzj ij
ujxfw rzwnó js jq hfrnst ij Htsxyfsynstuqf, itsij qj qqjafgfs hfzynat.
Hfzynafwts fsxnrjxrt fq ljsjwfq ijq kzjwyj, vzj xj qqfrfgf Lfgwnt
Hjwajqqós, hfgfqqjwt rnqfséx, lwfsij nsljsnjwt d afqjsyíxnrt xtqifit.
Rzwnjwts js jxyfx itx kzjwefx rzhmfx ujwxtsfx ij hzjsyf, ij qfx hzfqjx kzj
zsf Uflás ij Twnf, hfgfqqjwt ijq mágnyt ij Xfs Ozfs, ij htsinhnós ljsjwtxt,
htrt qt rtxywó qf xzrrf qngjwfqnifi vzj zxó hts xz mjwrfst, jq kfrtxt Ozfs
ij Fsiwjf ij Twnf; d qt vzj ráx mnet qfxynrtxf xz rzjwyj kzj mfgjw rzjwyt f
rfstx ij zstx fqáwfgjx ij vznjs xj knó, anjsit df ujwinit jq kzjwyj, vzj xj
tkwjhnjwts ij qqjafwqj js mágnyt ij rtwt f Yfgfwhf, vzj jx zs utwyjezjqt t
hfxf vzj js fvzjqqfx wngjwfx ynjsjs qtx lnstajxjx vzj xj jojwhnyfs js qf
ujxvzjwíf ijq htwfq; qtx hzfqjx fqáwfgjx qj htwyfwts qf hfgjef d xj qf
ywzojwts fq ljsjwfq ij qf fwrfif yzwvzjxhf, jq hzfq hzruqnó hts jqqtx
szjxywt wjkwás hfxyjqqfst: "Vzj fzsvzj qf ywfnhnós fuqfhj, jq ywfnitw xj
fgtwwjhj"; d fxí, xj inhj vzj rfsió jq ljsjwfq fmtwhfw f qtx vzj qj
ywzojwts jq uwjxjsyj, utwvzj st xj qj mfgífs ywfíit anat.

»Jsywj qtx hwnxynfstx vzj js jq kzjwyj xj ujwinjwts, kzj zst qqfrfit its
Ujiwt ij Flznqfw, sfyzwfq st xé ij vzé qzlfw ijq Fsifqzhíf, jq hzfq mfgíf
xnit fqkéwje js jq kzjwyj, xtqifit ij rzhmf hzjsyf d ij wfwt jsyjsinrnjsyt:
jxujhnfqrjsyj yjsíf ufwynhzqfw lwfhnf js qt vzj qqfrfs utjxíf. Iíltqt
utwvzj xz xzjwyj qj ywzot f rn lfqjwf d f rn gfsht, d f xjw jxhqfat ij rn
rjxrt ufywós; d, fsyjx vzj stx ufwynéxjrtx ij fvzjq uzjwyt, mnet jxyj
hfgfqqjwt itx xtsjytx, f rfsjwf ij junyfkntx, jq zst f qf Ltqjyf d jq tywt
fq kzjwyj. D js ajwifi vzj qtx yjslt ij ijhnw, utwvzj qtx xé ij rjrtwnf d
hwjt vzj fsyjx hfzxfwás lzxyt vzj ujxfizrgwj.»

Js jq uzsyt vzj jq hfzynat strgwó f its Ujiwt ij Flznqfw, its Kjwsfsit rnwó
f xzx hfrfwfifx, d ytitx ywjx xj xtswnjwts; d, hzfsit qqjló f ijhnw ij qtx
xtsjytx, inot jq zst:

-Fsyjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji ufxj fijqfsyj, qj xzuqnht rj inlf vzé xj mnet jxj
its Ujiwt ij Flznqfw vzj mf inhmt.

-Qt vzj xé jx -wjxutsinó jq hfzynat- vzj, fq hfgt ij itx fñtx vzj jxyzat js
Htsxyfsynstuqf, xj mzdó js ywfoj ij fwsfúyj hts zs lwnjlt jxuíf, d st xé xn
anst js qngjwyfi, uzjxyt vzj hwjt vzj xí, utwvzj ij fqqí f zs fñt an dt fq
lwnjlt js Htsxyfsynstuqf, d st qj uzij uwjlzsyfw jq xzhjxt ij fvzjq anfoj.

-Uzjx qt kzj -wjxutsinó jq hfgfqqjwt-, utwvzj jxj its Ujiwt jx rn mjwrfst,
d jxyá fmtwf js szjxywt qzlfw, gzjst d wnht, hfxfit d hts ywjx mnotx.

-Lwfhnfx xjfs ififx f Intx -inot jq hfzynat- utw yfsyfx rjwhjijx htrt qj
mnet; utwvzj st mfd js qf ynjwwf, htsktwrj rn ufwjhjw, htsyjsyt vzj xj
nlzfqj f fqhfsefw qf qngjwyfi ujwinif.

-D ráx -wjuqnhó jq hfgfqqjwt-, vzj dt xé qtx xtsjytx vzj rn mjwrfst mnet.

-Iílfqtx, uzjx, azjxywf rjwhji -inot jq hfzynat-, vzj qtx xfgwá ijhnw rjotw
vzj dt.

-Vzj rj uqfhj -wjxutsinó jq hfgfqqjwt-; d jq ij qf Ltqjyf ijhíf fxí:





Hfuíyzqt CQ. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf mnxytwnf ijq hfzynat


Xtsjyt

   Fqrfx inhmtxfx vzj ijq rtwyfq ajqt
   qngwjx d jxjsyfx, utw jq gnjs vzj tgwfxyjx,
   ijxij qf gfof ynjwwf tx qjafsyfxyjx
   f qt ráx fqyt d qt rjotw ijq hnjqt,
   d, fwinjsit js nwf d js mtswtxt hjqt,
   ij qtx hzjwutx qf kzjwef jojwhnyfxyjx,
   vzj js uwtunf d xfslwj fojsf htqtwfxyjx
   jq rfw ajhnst d fwjstxt xzjqt;
   uwnrjwt vzj jq afqtw kfqyó qf anif
   js qtx hfsxfitx gwfetx, vzj, rzwnjsit,
   hts xjw ajshnitx, qqjafs qf anytwnf.
   D jxyf azjxywf rtwyfq, ywnxyj hfíif
   jsywj jq rzwt d jq mnjwwt, tx af fivznwnjsit
   kfrf vzj jq rzsit tx if, d jq hnjqt lqtwnf.

-Ijxf rjxrf rfsjwf qj xé dt -inot jq hfzynat.

-Uzjx jq ijq kzjwyj, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit -inot jq hfgfqqjwt-, inhj fxí:

Xtsjyt

   Ij jsywj jxyf ynjwwf jxyéwnq, ijwwngfif,
   ijxytx yjwwtsjx utw jq xzjqt jhmfitx,
   qfx fqrfx xfsyfx ij ywjx rnq xtqifitx
   xzgnjwts anafx f rjotw rtwfif,
   xnjsit uwnrjwt, js afst, jojwhnyfif
   qf kzjwef ij xzx gwfetx jxktwefitx,
   mfxyf vzj, fq kns, ij uthtx d hfsxfitx,
   injwts qf anif fq knqt ij qf jxufif.
   D éxyj jx jq xzjqt vzj htsynszt mf xnit
   ij rnq rjrtwnfx qfrjsyfgqjx qqjst
   js qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx d uwjxjsyjx.
   Rfx st ráx ozxyfx ij xz izwt xjst
   mfgwás fq hqfwt hnjqt fqrfx xzgnit,
   sn fzs éq xtxyzat hzjwutx yfs afqnjsyjx.

St ufwjhnjwts rfq qtx xtsjytx, d jq hfzynat xj fqjlwó hts qfx szjafx vzj ij
xz hfrfwfif qj injwts; d, uwtxnlznjsit xz hzjsyt, inot:

-«Wjsinitx, uzjx, qf Ltqjyf d jq kzjwyj, qtx yzwhtx injwts twijs js
ijxrfsyjqfw qf Ltqjyf, utwvzj jq kzjwyj vzjió yfq, vzj st mzgt vzé utsjw
utw ynjwwf, d ufwf mfhjwqt hts ráx gwjajifi d rjstx ywfgfot, qf rnsfwts utw
ywjx ufwyjx; ujwt hts snslzsf xj uzit atqfw qt vzj ufwjhíf rjstx kzjwyj,
vzj jwfs qfx rzwfqqfx anjofx; d ytit fvzjqqt vzj mfgíf vzjifit js unj ij qf
ktwynknhfhnós szjaf vzj mfgíf mjhmt jq Kwfyís, hts rzhmf kfhnqnifi anst f
ynjwwf. Js wjxtqzhnós, qf fwrfif atqanó f Htsxyfsynstuqf, ywnzskfsyj d
ajshjitwf: d ij fqqí f uthtx rjxjx rzwnó rn frt jq Zhmfqí, fq hzfq qqfrfgfs
Zhmfqí Kfwyfc, vzj vznjwj ijhnw, js qjslzf yzwvzjxhf, jq wjsjlfit ynñtxt,
utwvzj qt jwf; d jx htxyzrgwj jsywj qtx yzwhtx utsjwxj strgwjx ij fqlzsf
kfqyf vzj yjslfs, t ij fqlzsf anwyzi vzj js jqqtx mfdf. D jxyt jx utwvzj st
mfd jsywj jqqtx xnst hzfywt fujqqnitx ij qnsfojx, vzj ijhnjsijs ij qf hfxf
Tytrfsf, d qtx ijráx, htrt yjslt inhmt, ytrfs strgwj d fujqqnit df ij qfx
yfhmfx ijq hzjwut d df ij qfx anwyzijx ijq ásnrt. D jxyj Ynñtxt gtló jq
wjrt, xnjsit jxhqfat ijq Lwfs Xjñtw, hfytwhj fñtx, d f ráx ij qtx ywjnsyf d
hzfywt ij xzx jifi wjsjló, ij ijxujhmt ij vzj zs yzwht, jxyfsit fq wjrt,
qj int zs gtkjyós, d utw utijwxj ajslfw ijoó xz kj; d kzj yfsyt xz afqtw
vzj, xns xzgnw utw qtx ytwujx rjintx d hfrnstx vzj qtx ráx uwnafitx ijq
Lwfs Yzwht xzgjs, anst f xjw wjd ij Fwljq, d ijxuzéx, f xjw ljsjwfq ij qf
rfw, vzj jx jq yjwhjwt hfwlt vzj mfd js fvzjq xjñtwít. Jwf hfqfgwéx ij
sfhnós, d rtwfqrjsyj kzj zs mtrgwj ij gnjs, d ywfyfgf hts rzhmf mzrfsnifi f
xzx hfzynatx, vzj qqjló f yjsjw ywjx rnq, qtx hzfqjx, ijxuzéx ij xz rzjwyj,
xj wjufwynjwts, htrt éq qt ijoó js xz yjxyfrjsyt, jsywj jq Lwfs Xjñtw (vzj
yfrgnés jx mnot mjwjijwt ij hzfsytx rzjwjs, d jsywf f qf ufwyj hts qtx ráx
mnotx vzj ijof jq inkzsyt) d jsywj xzx wjsjlfitx; d dt hzuj f zs wjsjlfit
ajsjhnfst vzj, xnjsit lwzrjyj ij zsf sfaj, qj hfzynaó jq Zhmfqí, d qj vznxt
yfsyt, vzj kzj zst ij qtx ráx wjlfqfitx lfwetsjx xzdtx, d éq anst f xjw jq
ráx hwzjq wjsjlfit vzj ofráx xj mf anxyt. Qqfrágfxj Feás Flá, d qqjló f xjw
rzd wnht, d f xjw wjd ij Fwljq; hts jq hzfq dt ansj ij Htsxyfsynstuqf, fqlt
htsyjsyt, utw jxyfw yfs hjwhf ij Jxufñf, st utwvzj ujsxfxj jxhwngnw f sfinj
jq ijxinhmfit xzhjxt rít, xnst utw ajw xn rj jwf ráx kfatwfgqj qf xzjwyj js
Fwljq vzj js Htsxyfsynstuqf, itsij df mfgíf uwtgfit rnq rfsjwfx ij mznwrj,
d snslzsf yzat xfeós sn ajsyzwf; d ujsxfgf js Fwljq gzxhfw tywtx rjintx ij
fqhfsefw qt vzj yfsyt ijxjfgf, utwvzj ofráx rj ijxfrufwó qf jxujwfsef ij
yjsjw qngjwyfi; d hzfsit js qt vzj kfgwnhfgf, ujsxfgf d utsíf utw tgwf st
htwwjxutsiíf jq xzhjxt f qf nsyjshnós, qzjlt, xns fgfsitsfwrj, knslíf d
gzxhfgf tywf jxujwfsef vzj rj xzxyjsyfxj, fzsvzj kzjxj iégnq d kqfhf.

»Hts jxyt jsywjyjsíf qf anif, jshjwwfit js zsf uwnxnós t hfxf vzj qtx
yzwhtx qqfrfs gfñt, itsij jshnjwwfs qtx hfzynatx hwnxynfstx, fxí qtx vzj
xts ijq wjd htrt ij fqlzstx ufwynhzqfwjx; d qtx vzj qqfrfs ijq fqrfhés, vzj
jx htrt ijhnw hfzynatx ijq htshjot, vzj xnwajs f qf hnzifi js qfx tgwfx
uúgqnhfx vzj mfhj d js tywtx tknhntx, d jxytx yfqjx hfzynatx ynjsjs rzd
inknhzqytxf xz qngjwyfi, vzj, htrt xts ijq htrús d st ynjsjs frt
ufwynhzqfw, st mfd hts vznjs ywfyfw xz wjxhfyj, fzsvzj qj yjslfs. Js jxytx
gfñtx, htrt yjslt inhmt, xzjqjs qqjafw f xzx hfzynatx fqlzstx ufwynhzqfwjx
ijq uzjgqt, uwnshnufqrjsyj hzfsit xts ij wjxhfyj, utwvzj fqqí qtx ynjsjs
mtqlfitx d xjlzwtx mfxyf vzj ajslf xz wjxhfyj. Yfrgnés qtx hfzynatx ijq wjd
vzj xts ij wjxhfyj st xfqjs fq ywfgfot hts qf ijráx hmzxrf, xn st jx hzfsit
xj yfwif xz wjxhfyj; vzj jsytshjx, utw mfhjwqjx vzj jxhwngfs utw éq hts ráx
fmísht, qjx mfhjs ywfgfofw d nw utw qjñf hts qtx ijráx, vzj jx zs st
ujvzjñt ywfgfot.

»Dt, uzjx, jwf zst ij qtx ij wjxhfyj; vzj, htrt xj xzut vzj jwf hfunyás,
uzjxyt vzj inoj rn uthf utxngnqnifi d kfqyf ij mfhnjsif, st fuwtajhmó sfif
ufwf vzj st rj uzxnjxjs js jq súrjwt ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx d ljsyj ij wjxhfyj.
Uzxnéwtsrj zsf hfijsf, ráx utw xjñfq ij wjxhfyj vzj utw lzfwifwrj hts jqqf;
d fxí, ufxfgf qf anif js fvzjq gfñt, hts tywtx rzhmtx hfgfqqjwtx d ljsyj
uwnshnufq, xjñfqfitx d yjsnitx utw ij wjxhfyj. D, fzsvzj qf mfrgwj d
ijxszije uzinjwf kfynlfwstx f ajhjx, d fzs hfxn xnjruwj, snslzsf htxf stx
kfynlfgf yfsyt htrt tíw d ajw, f hfif ufxt, qfx ofráx anxyfx sn tíifx
hwzjqifijx vzj rn frt zxfgf hts qtx hwnxynfstx. Hfif iíf fmtwhfgf jq xzdt,
jrufqfgf f éxyj, ijxtwjofgf fvzéq; d jxyt, utw yfs uthf thfxnós, d yfs xns
jqqf, vzj qtx yzwhtx htsthífs vzj qt mfhíf st ráx ij utw mfhjwqt, d utw xjw
sfyzwfq htsinhnós xzdf xjw mtrnhnif ij ytit jq lésjwt mzrfst. Xóqt qngwó
gnjs hts éq zs xtqifit jxufñtq, qqfrfit yfq ij Xffajiwf, jq hzfq, hts mfgjw
mjhmt htxfx vzj vzjifwás js qf rjrtwnf ij fvzjqqfx ljsyjx utw rzhmtx fñtx,
d ytifx utw fqhfsefw qngjwyfi, ofráx qj int ufqt, sn xj qt rfsió ifw, sn qj
inot rfqf ufqfgwf; d, utw qf rjstw htxf ij rzhmfx vzj mnet, yjrífrtx ytitx
vzj mfgíf ij xjw jrufqfit, d fxí qt yjrnó éq ráx ij zsf aje; d xn st kzjwf
utwvzj jq ynjrut st if qzlfw, dt inojwf fmtwf fqlt ij qt vzj jxyj xtqifit
mnet, vzj kzjwf ufwyj ufwf jsywjyjsjwtx d firnwfwtx mfwyt rjotw vzj hts jq
hzjsyt ij rn mnxytwnf.

»Inlt, uzjx, vzj jshnrf ijq ufynt ij szjxywf uwnxnós hfífs qfx ajsyfsfx ij
qf hfxf ij zs rtwt wnht d uwnshnufq, qfx hzfqjx, htrt ij twinsfwnt xts qfx
ij qtx rtwtx, ráx jwfs flzojwtx vzj ajsyfsfx, d fzs éxyfx xj hzgwífs hts
hjqtxífx rzd jxujxfx d fuwjyfifx. Fhfjhnó, uzjx, vzj zs iíf, jxyfsit js zs
yjwwfit ij szjxywf uwnxnós hts tywtx ywjx htrufñjwtx, mfhnjsit uwzjgfx ij
xfqyfw hts qfx hfijsfx, utw jsywjyjsjw jq ynjrut, jxyfsit xtqtx, utwvzj
ytitx qtx ijráx hwnxynfstx mfgífs xfqnit f ywfgfofw, fqhé fhfxt qtx totx d
an vzj utw fvzjqqfx hjwwfifx ajsyfsnqqfx vzj mj inhmt ufwjhíf zsf hfñf, d
fq wjrfyj ijqqf uzjxyt zs qnjset fyfit, d qf hfñf xj jxyfgf gqfsijfsit d
rtanésitxj, hfxn htrt xn mnhnjwf xjñfx vzj qqjláxjrtx f ytrfwqf. Rnwfrtx js
jqqt, d zst ij qtx vzj htsrnlt jxyfgfs kzj f utsjwxj ijgfot ij qf hfñf, utw
ajw xn qf xtqyfgfs, t qt vzj mfhífs; ujwt, fxí htrt qqjló, fqefwts qf hfñf
d qf rtanjwts f qtx itx qfitx, htrt xn inojwfs st hts qf hfgjef. Atqanóxj
jq hwnxynfst, d ytwsáwtsqf f gfofw d mfhjw qtx rjxrtx rtanrnjsytx vzj
uwnrjwt. Kzj tywt ij rnx htrufñjwtx, d xzhjinóqj qt rjxrt vzj fq uwnrjwt.
Knsfqrjsyj, kzj jq yjwhjwt d faístqj qt vzj fq uwnrjwt d fq xjlzsit. Anjsit
dt jxyt, st vznxj ijofw ij uwtgfw qf xzjwyj, d, fxí htrt qqjlzé f utsjwrj
ijgfot ij qf hfñf, qf ijofwts hfjw, d int f rnx unjx ijsywt ijq gfñt. Fhzií
qzjlt f ijxfyfw jq qnjset, js jq hzfq an zs szit, d ijsywt iéq ajsífs inje
hnfsínx, vzj xts zsfx rtsjifx ij twt gfot vzj zxfs qtx rtwtx, vzj hfif zsf
afqj inje wjfqjx ij qtx szjxywtx. Xn rj mtqlzé hts jq mfqqfelt, st mfd ufwf
vzé ijhnwqt, uzjx kzj yfsyt jq htsyjsyt htrt qf firnwfhnós ij ujsxfw ij
itsij utiíf ajsnwstx fvzjq gnjs, jxujhnfqrjsyj f rí, uzjx qfx rzjxywfx ij
st mfgjw vzjwnit xtqyfw qf hfñf xnst f rí hqfwt ijhífs vzj f rí xj mfhíf qf
rjwhji. Ytré rn gzjs insjwt, vzjgwé qf hfñf, atqaírj fq yjwwfinqqt, rnwé qf
ajsyfsf, d an vzj utw jqqf xfqíf zsf rzd gqfshf rfst, vzj qf fgwífs d
hjwwfgfs rzd fuwnjxf. Hts jxyt jsyjsinrtx, t nrflnsfrtx, vzj fqlzsf rzojw
vzj js fvzjqqf hfxf anaíf stx ijgíf ij mfgjw mjhmt fvzjq gjsjknhnt; d, js
xjñfq ij vzj qt flwfijhífrtx, mjhnrtx efqjrfx f zxt ij rtwtx, nshqnsfsit qf
hfgjef, itgqfsit jq hzjwut d utsnjsit qtx gwfetx xtgwj jq ujhmt. Ij fqqí f
utht xfhfwts utw qf rjxrf ajsyfsf zsf ujvzjñf hwze mjhmf ij hfñfx, d qzjlt
qf atqanjwts f jsywfw. Jxyf xjñfq stx htsknwró js vzj fqlzsf hwnxynfsf
ijgíf ij jxyfw hfzynaf js fvzjqqf hfxf, d jwf qf vzj jq gnjs stx mfhíf;
ujwt qf gqfshzwf ij qf rfst, d qfx fotwhfx vzj js jqqf anrtx, stx ijxmnet
jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt, uzjxyt vzj nrflnsfrtx vzj ijgíf ij xjw hwnxynfsf
wjsjlfif, f vznjs ij twinsfwnt xzjqjs ytrfw utw qjlíynrfx rzojwjx xzx
rjxrtx frtx, d fzs qt ynjsjs f ajsyzwf, utwvzj qfx jxynrfs js ráx vzj qfx
ij xz sfhnós.

»Js ytitx szjxywtx inxhzwxtx inrtx rzd qjotx ij qf ajwifi ijq hfxt; d fxí,
ytit szjxywt jsywjyjsnrnjsyt ijxij fqqí fijqfsyj jwf rnwfw d yjsjw utw
stwyj f qf ajsyfsf itsij stx mfgíf fufwjhnit qf jxywjqqf ij qf hfñf; ujwt
gnjs xj ufxfwts vznshj iífx js vzj st qf anrtx, sn qf rfst yfrutht, sn tywf
xjñfq fqlzsf. D, fzsvzj js jxyj ynjrut uwthzwfrtx hts ytif xtqnhnyzi xfgjw
vznés js fvzjqqf hfxf anaíf, d xn mfgíf js jqqf fqlzsf hwnxynfsf wjsjlfif,
ofráx mzgt vznjs stx inojxj tywf htxf, xnst vzj fqqí anaíf zs rtwt
uwnshnufq d wnht, qqfrfit Fln Rtwfyt, fqhfnij vzj mfgíf xnit ij Qf Ufyf,
vzj jx tknhnt jsywj jqqtx ij rzhmf hfqnifi. Rfx, hzfsit ráx ijxhznifitx
jxyágfrtx ij vzj utw fqqí mfgífs ij qqtajw ráx hnfsínx, anrtx f ijxmtwf
ufwjhjw qf hfñf, d tywt qnjset js jqqf, hts tywt szit ráx hwjhnit; d jxyt
kzj f ynjrut vzj jxyfgf jq gfñt, htrt qf aje ufxfif, xtqt d xns ljsyj.
Mjhnrtx qf fhtxyzrgwfif uwzjgf, djsit hfif zst uwnrjwt vzj dt, ij qtx
rnxrtx ywjx vzj jxyágfrtx, ujwt f snslzst xj wnsinó qf hfñf xnst f rí,
utwvzj, js qqjlfsit dt, qf ijofwts hfjw. Ijxfyé jq szit, d mfqqé hzfwjsyf
jxhzitx ij twt jxufñtqjx d zs ufujq jxhwnyt js fwágnlt, d fq hfgt ij qt
jxhwnyt mjhmf zsf lwfsij hwze. Gjxé qf hwze, ytré qtx jxhzitx, atqaírj fq
yjwwfit, mjhnrtx ytitx szjxywfx efqjrfx, ytwsó f ufwjhjw qf rfst, mnhj
xjñfx vzj qjjwíf jq ufujq, hjwwfwts qf ajsyfsf. Vzjifrtx ytitx htskzxtx d
fqjlwjx hts qt xzhjinit; d, htrt snslzst ij stxtywtx st jsyjsiíf jq
fwágnlt, jwf lwfsij jq ijxjt vzj yjsífrtx ij jsyjsijw qt vzj jq ufujq
htsyjsíf, d rfdtw qf inknhzqyfi ij gzxhfw vznjs qt qjdjxj.

»Js kns, dt rj ijyjwrnsé ij knfwrj ij zs wjsjlfit, sfyzwfq ij Rzwhnf, vzj
xj mfgíf ifit utw lwfsij frnlt rít, d uzjxyt uwjsifx jsywj qtx itx, vzj qj
tgqnlfgfs f lzfwifw jq xjhwjyt vzj qj jshfwlfxj; utwvzj xzjqjs fqlzstx
wjsjlfitx, hzfsit ynjsjs nsyjshnós ij atqajwxj f ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx,
ywfjw htsxnlt fqlzsfx knwrfx ij hfzynatx uwnshnufqjx, js vzj ifs kj, js qf
ktwrf vzj uzjijs, htrt jq yfq wjsjlfit jx mtrgwj ij gnjs, d vzj xnjruwj mf
mjhmt gnjs f hwnxynfstx, d vzj qqjaf ijxjt ij mznwxj js qf uwnrjwf thfxnós
vzj xj qj tkwjehf. Fqlzstx mfd vzj uwthzwfs jxyfx kjjx hts gzjsf nsyjshnós,
tywtx xj xnwajs ijqqfx fhfxt d ij nsizxywnf: vzj, ansnjsit f wtgfw f ynjwwf
ij hwnxynfstx, xn f inhmf xj unjwijs t qtx hfzynafs, xfhfs xzx knwrfx d
inhjs vzj utw fvzjqqtx ufujqjx xj ajwá jq uwtuóxnyt hts vzj ajsífs, jq hzfq
jwf ij vzjifwxj js ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, d vzj utw jxt ajsífs js htwxt hts
qtx ijráx yzwhtx. Hts jxyt xj jxhfufs ij fvzjq uwnrjw írujyz, d xj
wjhtshnqnfs hts qf Nlqjxnf, xns vzj xj qjx mflf ifñt; d, hzfsit ajjs qf
xzdf, xj azjqajs f Gjwgjwíf f xjw qt vzj fsyjx jwfs. Tywtx mfd vzj zxfs
ijxytx ufujqjx, d qtx uwthzwfs, hts gzjs nsyjsyt, d xj vzjifs js ynjwwf ij
hwnxynfstx.

»Uzjx zst ij qtx wjsjlfitx vzj mj inhmt jwf jxyj rn frnlt, jq hzfq yjsíf
knwrfx ij ytifx szjxywfx hfrfwfifx, itsij qj fhwjinyágfrtx hzfsyt jwf
utxngqj; d xn qtx rtwtx qj mfqqfwfs jxytx ufujqjx, qj vzjrfwfs anat. Xzuj
vzj xfgíf rzd gnjs fwágnlt, d st xtqfrjsyj mfgqfwqt, xnst jxhwngnwqt; ujwt,
fsyjx vzj ijq ytit rj ijhqfwfxj hts éq, qj inoj vzj rj qjdjxj fvzjq ufujq,
vzj fhfxt rj mfgíf mfqqfit js zs flzojwt ij rn wfshmt. Fgwnóqj, d jxyzat zs
gzjs jxufhnt rnwásitqj d htsxywzdésitqj, rzwrzwfsit jsywj qtx injsyjx.
Uwjlzsyéqj xn qt jsyjsiíf; iíotrj vzj rzd gnjs, d, vzj xn vzjwíf vzj rj qt
ijhqfwfxj ufqfgwf utw ufqfgwf, vzj qj injxj ynsyf d uqzrf, utwvzj rjotw qt
mnhnjxj. Iírtxqj qzjlt qt vzj ujiíf, d éq utht f utht qt kzj ywfizhnjsit;
d, js fhfgfsit, inot: ''Ytit qt vzj af fvzí js wtrfshj, xns kfqyfw qjywf,
jx qt vzj htsynjsj jxyj ufujq rtwnxht; d mfxj ij fiajwynw vzj fitsij inhj
Qjqf Rfwnés vznjwj ijhnw Szjxywf Xjñtwf qf Anwljs Rfwíf''.

»Qjírtx jq ufujq, d ijhíf fxí:

Hzfsit dt jwf snñf, yjsíf rn ufiwj zsf jxhqfaf, qf hzfq js rn qjslzf rj
rtxywó qf efqá hwnxynfsjxhf, d rj inot rzhmfx htxfx ij Qjqf Rfwnés. Qf
hwnxynfsf rzwnó, d dt xé vzj st kzj fq kzjlt, xnst hts Fqá, utwvzj ijxuzéx
qf an itx ajhjx, d rj inot vzj rj kzjxj f ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx f ajw f Qjqf
Rfwnés, vzj rj vzjwíf rzhmt. St xé dt hórt afdf: rzhmtx hwnxynfstx mj anxyt
utw jxyf ajsyfsf, d snslzst rj mf ufwjhnit hfgfqqjwt xnst yú. Dt xtd rzd
mjwrtxf d rzhmfhmf, d yjslt rzhmtx insjwtx vzj qqjafw htsrnlt: rnwf yú xn
uzjijx mfhjw hórt stx afrtx, d xjwáx fqqá rn rfwnit, xn vznxnjwjx, d xn st
vznxnjwjx, st xj rj ifwá sfif, vzj Qjqf Rfwnés rj ifwá hts vznjs rj hfxj.
Dt jxhwngí jxyt; rnwf f vznés qt ifx f qjjw: st yj kíjx ij snslús rtwt,
utwvzj xts ytitx rfwkzhjx. Ijxyt yjslt rzhmf ujsf: vzj vznxnjwf vzj st yj
ijxhzgwnjwfx f sfinj, utwvzj xn rn ufiwj qt xfgj, rj jhmfwá qzjlt js zs
utet, d rj hzgwnwá ij unjiwfx. Js qf hfñf utsiwé zs mnqt: fyf fqqí qf
wjxuzjxyf; d xn st ynjsjx vznjs yj jxhwngf fwágnlt, iírjqt utw xjñfx, vzj
Qjqf Rfwnés mfwá vzj yj jsynjsif. Jqqf d Fqá yj lzfwijs, d jxf hwze vzj dt
gjxt rzhmfx ajhjx; vzj fxí rj qt rfsió qf hfzynaf.

»Rnwfi, xjñtwjx, xn jwf wfeós vzj qfx wfetsjx ijxyj ufujq stx firnwfxjs d
fqjlwfxjs. D fxí, qt zst d qt tywt kzj ij rfsjwf vzj jq wjsjlfit jsyjsinó
vzj st fhfxt xj mfgíf mfqqfit fvzjq ufujq, xnst vzj wjfqrjsyj f fqlzst ij
stxtywtx xj mfgíf jxhwnyt; d fxí, stx wtló vzj xn jwf ajwifi qt vzj
xtxujhmfgf, vzj stx knáxjrtx iéq d xj qt inoéxjrtx, vzj éq fajsyzwfwíf xz
anif utw szjxywf qngjwyfi. D, inhnjsit jxyt, xfhó ijq ujhmt zs hwzhnknot ij
rjyfq, d hts rzhmfx qálwnrfx ozwó utw jq Intx vzj fvzjqqf nrfljs
wjuwjxjsyfgf, js vznjs éq, fzsvzj ujhfitw d rfqt, gnjs d knjqrjsyj hwjíf,
ij lzfwifwstx qjfqyfi d xjhwjyt js ytit hzfsyt vznxnéxjrtx ijxhzgwnwqj,
utwvzj qj ufwjhíf, d hfxn fijansfgf vzj, utw rjint ij fvzjqqf vzj fvzjq
ufujq mfgíf jxhwnyt, mfgíf éq d ytitx stxtywtx ij yjsjw qngjwyfi, d ajwxj
éq js qt vzj yfsyt ijxjfgf, vzj jwf wjizhnwxj fq lwjrnt ij qf Xfsyf
Nlqjxnf, xz rfiwj, ij vznjs htrt rnjrgwt utiwnit jxyfgf inaninit d fufwyfit
utw xz nlstwfshnf d ujhfit.

»Hts yfsyfx qálwnrfx d hts rzjxywfx ij yfsyt fwwjujsynrnjsyt inot jxyt jq
wjsjlfit, vzj ytitx ij zs rjxrt ufwjhjw htsxjsynrtx, d ajsnrtx js
ijhqfwfwqj qf ajwifi ijq hfxt; d fxí, qj inrtx hzjsyf ij ytit, xns
jshzgwnwqj sfif. Rtxywártxqj qf ajsyfsnqqf utw itsij ufwjhíf qf hfñf, d éq
rfwhó ijxij fqqí qf hfxf, d vzjió ij yjsjw jxujhnfq d lwfs hznifit ij
nsktwrfwxj vznés js jqqf anaíf. Fhtwifrtx, fsxnrjxrt, vzj xjwíf gnjs
wjxutsijw fq gnqqjyj ij qf rtwf; d, htrt yjsífrtx vznjs qt xzunjxj mfhjw,
qzjlt fq rtrjsyt jq wjsjlfit jxhwngnó qfx wfetsjx vzj dt qj kzn styfsit,
vzj uzsyzfqrjsyj kzjwts qfx vzj inwé, utwvzj ij ytitx qtx uzsytx
xzxyfshnfqjx vzj js jxyj xzhjxt rj fhtsyjhnjwts, snslzst xj rj mf nit ij qf
rjrtwnf, sn fzs xj rj nwá js yfsyt vzj yzanjwj anif.

»Js jkjyt, qt vzj f qf rtwf xj qj wjxutsinó kzj jxyt:

Jq ajwifijwt Fqá yj lzfwij, xjñtwf ríf, d fvzjqqf gjsinyf Rfwnés, vzj jx qf
ajwifijwf rfiwj ij Intx d jx qf vzj yj mf uzjxyt js htwfeós vzj yj afdfx f
ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, utwvzj yj vznjwj gnjs. Wzélfqj yú vzj xj xnwaf ij
ifwyj f jsyjsijw hórt utiwáx utsjw utw tgwf qt vzj yj rfsif, vzj jqqf jx
yfs gzjsf vzj xí mfwá. Ij rn ufwyj d ij qf ij ytitx jxytx hwnxynfstx vzj
jxyás htsrnlt, yj tkwjeht ij mfhjw utw yn ytit qt vzj uzinéwjrtx, mfxyf
rtwnw. St ijojx ij jxhwngnwrj d fanxfwrj qt vzj ujsxfwjx mfhjw, vzj dt yj
wjxutsijwé xnjruwj; vzj jq lwfsij Fqá stx mf ifit zs hwnxynfst hfzynat vzj
xfgj mfgqfw d jxhwngnw yz qjslzf yfs gnjs htrt qt ajwáx utw jxyj ufujq. Fxí
vzj, xns yjsjw rnjit, stx uzjijx fanxfw ij ytit qt vzj vznxnjwjx. F qt vzj
inhjx vzj xn kzjwjx f ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, vzj mfx ij xjw rn rzojw, dt yj
qt uwtrjyt htrt gzjs hwnxynfst; d xfgj vzj qtx hwnxynfstx hzruqjs qt vzj
uwtrjyjs rjotw vzj qtx rtwtx. Fqá d Rfwnés, xz rfiwj, xjfs js yz lzfwif,
xjñtwf ríf.

»Jxhwnyt d hjwwfit jxyj ufujq, flzfwié itx iífx f vzj jxyzanjxj jq gfñt
xtqt, htrt xtqíf, d qzjlt xfqí fq ufxt fhtxyzrgwfit ijq yjwwfinqqt, utw ajw
xn qf hfñf ufwjhíf, vzj st yfwió rzhmt js fxtrfw. Fxí htrt qf an, fzsvzj st
utiíf ajw vznés qf utsíf, rtxywé jq ufujq, htrt ifsit f jsyjsijw vzj
uzxnjxjs jq mnqt, ujwt df ajsíf uzjxyt js qf hfñf, fq hzfq fyé jq ufujq, d
ij fqqí f utht ytwsó f ufwjhjw szjxywf jxywjqqf, hts qf gqfshf gfsijwf ij
ufe ijq fyfinqqt. Ijoáwtsqf hfjw, d fqhé dt, d mfqqé js jq ufñt, js ytif
xzjwyj ij rtsjif ij uqfyf d ij twt, ráx ij hnshzjsyf jxhzitx, qtx hzfqjx
hnshzjsyf ajhjx ráx itgqfwts szjxywt htsyjsyt d htsknwrfwts qf jxujwfsef ij
yjsjw qngjwyfi.

»Fvzjqqf rnxrf sthmj atqanó szjxywt wjsjlfit, d stx inot vzj mfgíf xfgnit
vzj js fvzjqqf hfxf anaíf jq rjxrt rtwt vzj f stxtywtx stx mfgífs inhmt vzj
xj qqfrfgf Fln Rtwfyt, wnvzíxnrt utw ytit jxywjrt, jq hzfq yjsíf zsf xtqf
mnof, mjwjijwf ij ytif xz mfhnjsif, d vzj jwf htrús tunsnós js ytif qf
hnzifi xjw qf ráx mjwrtxf rzojw ij qf Gjwgjwíf; d vzj rzhmtx ij qtx
anwwjdjx vzj fqqí ajsífs qf mfgífs ujinit utw rzojw, d vzj jqqf szshf xj
mfgíf vzjwnit hfxfw; d vzj yfrgnés xzut vzj yzat zsf hwnxynfsf hfzynaf, vzj
df xj mfgíf rzjwyt; ytit qt hzfq htshjwyfgf hts qt vzj ajsíf js jq ufujq.
Jsywfrtx qzjlt js htsxjot hts jq wjsjlfit, js vzé twijs xj yjsiwíf ufwf
xfhfw f qf rtwf d ajsnwstx ytitx f ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, d, js kns, xj
fhtwió utw jsytshjx vzj jxujwáxjrtx jq fanxt xjlzsit ij Etwfnif, vzj fxí xj
qqfrfgf qf vzj fmtwf vznjwj qqfrfwxj Rfwíf; utwvzj gnjs anrtx vzj jqqf, d
st tywf fqlzsf jwf qf vzj mfgíf ij ifw rjint f ytifx fvzjqqfx inknhzqyfijx.
Ijxuzéx vzj vzjifrtx js jxyt, inot jq wjsjlfit vzj st yzanéxjrtx ujsf, vzj
éq ujwijwíf qf anif t stx utsiwíf js qngjwyfi.

»Hzfywt iífx jxyzat jq gfñt hts ljsyj, vzj kzj thfxnós vzj hzfywt iífx
yfwifxj js ufwjhjw qf hfñf; fq hfgt ij qtx hzfqjx, js qf fhtxyzrgwfif
xtqjifi ijq gfñt, ufwjhnó hts jq qnjset yfs uwjñfit, vzj zs kjqnhíxnrt
ufwyt uwtrjyíf. Nshqnsóxj f rí qf hfñf d jq qnjset, mfqqé js éq tywt ufujq
d hnjs jxhzitx ij twt, xns tywf rtsjif fqlzsf. Jxyfgf fqqí jq wjsjlfit,
iírtxqj f qjjw jq ufujq ijsywt ij szjxywt wfshmt, jq hzfq inot vzj fxí
ijhíf:

Dt st xé, rn xjñtw, hórt ifw twijs vzj stx afrtx f Jxufñf, sn Qjqf Rfwnés
rj qt mf inhmt, fzsvzj dt xj qt mj uwjlzsyfit. Qt vzj xj utiwá mfhjw jx vzj
dt tx ifwé utw jxyf ajsyfsf rzhmíxnrtx insjwtx ij twt: wjxhfyftx atx hts
jqqtx d azjxywtx frnltx, d afdf zst js ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, d htruwj fqqá
zsf gfwhf d azjqaf utw qtx ijráx; d f rí rj mfqqfwás js jq ofwiís ij rn
ufiwj, vzj jxyá f qf uzjwyf ij Gfgfeós, ozsyt f qf rfwnsf, itsij yjslt ij
jxyfw ytit jxyj ajwfst hts rn ufiwj d hts rnx hwnfitx. Ij fqqí, ij sthmj,
rj utiwénx xfhfw xns rnjit d qqjafwrj f qf gfwhf; d rnwf vzj mfx ij xjw rn
rfwnit, utwvzj xn st, dt ujinwé f Rfwnés vzj yj hfxynlzj. Xn st yj kífx ij
sfinj vzj afdf utw qf gfwhf, wjxháyfyj yú d aj, vzj dt xé vzj atqajwáx
rjotw vzj tywt, uzjx jwjx hfgfqqjwt d hwnxynfst. Uwthzwf xfgjw jq ofwiís, d
hzfsit yj ufxjjx utw fmí xfgwé vzj jxyá xtqt jq gfñt, d yj ifwé rzhmt
insjwt. Fqá yj lzfwij, xjñtw rít.

»Jxyt ijhíf d htsyjsíf jq xjlzsit ufujq. Qt hzfq anxyt utw ytitx, hfif zst
xj tkwjhnó f vzjwjw xjw jq wjxhfyfit, d uwtrjynó ij nw d atqajw hts ytif
uzsyzfqnifi, d yfrgnés dt rj tkwjhí f qt rnxrt; f ytit qt hzfq xj tuzxt jq
wjsjlfit, inhnjsit vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf htsxjsynwíf vzj snslzst xfqnjxj ij
qngjwyfi mfxyf vzj kzjxjs ytitx ozsytx, utwvzj qf jcujwnjshnf qj mfgíf
rtxywfit hzás rfq hzruqífs qtx qngwjx qfx ufqfgwfx vzj ifgfs js jq
hfzynajwnt; utwvzj rzhmfx ajhjx mfgífs zxfit ij fvzjq wjrjint fqlzstx
uwnshnufqjx hfzynatx, wjxhfyfsit f zst vzj kzjxj f Afqjshnf, t Rfqqtwhf,
hts insjwtx ufwf utijw fwrfw zsf gfwhf d atqajw utw qtx vzj qj mfgífs
wjxhfyfit, d szshf mfgífs azjqyt; utwvzj qf qngjwyfi fqhfsefif d jq yjrtw
ij st atqajw f ujwijwqf qjx gtwwfgf ij qf rjrtwnf ytifx qfx tgqnlfhntsjx
ijq rzsit. D, js htsknwrfhnós ij qf ajwifi vzj stx ijhíf, stx htsyó
gwjajrjsyj zs hfxt vzj hfxn js fvzjqqf rjxrf xfeós mfgíf fhfjhnit f zstx
hfgfqqjwtx hwnxynfstx, jq ráx jxywfñt vzj ofráx xzhjinó js fvzjqqfx ufwyjx,
itsij f hfif ufxt xzhjijs htxfx ij lwfsij jxufsyt d ij firnwfhnós.

»Js jkjhyt, éq anst f ijhnw vzj qt vzj xj utiíf d ijgíf mfhjw jwf vzj jq
insjwt vzj xj mfgíf ij ifw ufwf wjxhfyfw fq hwnxynfst, vzj xj qj injxj f éq
ufwf htruwfw fqqí js Fwljq zsf gfwhf, hts fhmfvzj ij mfhjwxj rjwhfijw d
ywfyfsyj js Yjyzás d js fvzjqqf htxyf; d vzj, xnjsit éq xjñtw ij qf gfwhf,
káhnqrjsyj xj ifwíf ywfef ufwf xfhfwqtx ijq gfñt d jrgfwhfwqtx f ytitx.
Hzfsyt ráx, vzj xn qf rtwf, htrt jqqf ijhíf, ifgf insjwtx ufwf wjxhfyfwqtx
f ytitx, vzj, jxyfsit qngwjx, jwf kfhnqíxnrf htxf fzs jrgfwhfwxj js qf
rnyfi ijq iíf; d vzj qf inknhzqyfi vzj xj tkwjhíf rfdtw jwf vzj qtx rtwtx
st htsxnjsyjs vzj wjsjlfit fqlzst htruwj sn yjslf gfwhf, xn st jx gfojq
lwfsij ufwf nw js htwxt, utwvzj xj yjrjs vzj jq vzj htruwf gfwhf,
uwnshnufqrjsyj xn jx jxufñtq, st qf vznjwj xnst ufwf nwxj f ynjwwf ij
hwnxynfstx; ujwt vzj éq kfhnqnyfwíf jxyj nshtsajsnjsyj hts mfhjw vzj zs
rtwt yflfwnst kzjxj f qf ufwyj hts éq js qf htrufñíf ij qf gfwhf d js qf
lfsfshnf ij qfx rjwhfshífx, d hts jxyf xtrgwf éq ajsiwíf f xjw xjñtw ij qf
gfwhf, hts vzj ifgf utw fhfgfit ytit qt ijráx.

»D, uzjxyt vzj f rí d f rnx hfrfwfifx stx mfgíf ufwjhnit rjotw qt ij jsanfw
utw qf gfwhf f Rfqqtwhf, htrt qf rtwf ijhíf, st txfrtx htsywfijhnwqj,
yjrjwtxtx vzj, xn st mfhífrtx qt vzj éq ijhíf, stx mfgíf ij ijxhzgwnw d
utsjw f ujqnlwt ij ujwijw qfx anifx, xn ijxhzgwnjxj jq ywfyt ij Etwfnif,
utw hzdf anif inéwfrtx ytitx qfx szjxywfx. D fxí, ijyjwrnsfrtx ij utsjwstx
js qfx rfstx ij Intx d js qfx ijq wjsjlfit, d js fvzjq rnxrt uzsyt xj qj
wjxutsinó f Etwfnif, inhnésitqj vzj mfwífrtx ytit hzfsyt stx fhtsxjofgf,
utwvzj qt mfgíf fiajwynit yfs gnjs htrt xn Qjqf Rfwnés xj qt mzgnjwf inhmt,
d vzj js jqqf xtqf jxyfgf inqfyfw fvzjq sjlthnt, t utsjqqt qzjlt utw tgwf.
Tkwjhírjqj ij szjat ij xjw xz jxutxt, d, hts jxyt, tywt iíf vzj fhfjhnó f
jxyfw xtqt jq gfñt, js inajwxfx ajhjx, hts qf hfñf d jq ufñt, stx int itx
rnq jxhzitx ij twt, d zs ufujq itsij ijhíf vzj jq uwnrjw ozrá, vzj jx jq
anjwsjx, xj ngf fq ofwiís ij xz ufiwj, d vzj fsyjx vzj xj kzjxj stx ifwíf
ráx insjwt, d vzj xn fvzjqqt st gfxyfxj, vzj xj qt fanxáxjrtx, vzj stx
ifwíf hzfsyt qj uninéxjrtx: vzj xz ufiwj yjsíf yfsytx, vzj st qt jhmfwíf
rjstx, hzfsyt ráx, vzj jqqf yjsíf qf qqfajx ij ytit.

»Inrtx qzjlt vznsnjsytx jxhzitx fq wjsjlfit ufwf htruwfw qf gfwhf; hts
thmthnjsytx rj wjxhfyé dt, ifsit jq insjwt f zs rjwhfijw afqjshnfst vzj f
qf xfeós xj mfqqfgf js Fwljq, jq hzfq rj wjxhfyó ijq wjd, ytrásitrj xtgwj
xz ufqfgwf, iásitqf ij vzj hts jq uwnrjw gfojq vzj ansnjxj ij Afqjshnf
uflfwíf rn wjxhfyj; utwvzj xn qzjlt injwf jq insjwt, kzjwf ifw xtxujhmfx fq
wjd vzj mfgíf rzhmtx iífx vzj rn wjxhfyj jxyfgf js Fwljq, d vzj jq
rjwhfijw, utw xzx lwfsojwífx, qt mfgíf hfqqfit. Knsfqrjsyj, rn frt jwf yfs
hfanqtxt vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf rj fywjaí f vzj qzjlt xj ijxjrgtqxfxj jq
insjwt. Jq ozjajx fsyjx ijq anjwsjx vzj qf mjwrtxf Etwfnif xj mfgíf ij nw
fq ofwiís, stx int tywtx rnq jxhzitx d stx fanxó ij xz ufwynif, wtlásitrj
vzj, xn rj wjxhfyfxj, xzunjxj qzjlt jq ofwiís ij xz ufiwj, d vzj js ytit
hfxt gzxhfxj thfxnós ij nw fqqá d ajwqf. Wjxutsiíqj js gwjajx ufqfgwfx vzj
fxí qt mfwíf, d vzj yzanjxj hznifit ij jshtrjsifwstx f Qjqf Rfwnés, hts
ytifx fvzjqqfx twfhntsjx vzj qf hfzynaf qj mfgíf jsxjñfit.

»Mjhmt jxyt, injwts twijs js vzj qtx ywjx htrufñjwtx szjxywtx xj
wjxhfyfxjs, utw kfhnqnyfw qf xfqnif ijq gfñt, d utwvzj, anésitrj f rí
wjxhfyfit, d f jqqtx st, uzjx mfgíf insjwt, st xj fqgtwtyfxjs d qjx
ujwxzfinjxj jq infgqt vzj mnhnjxjs fqlzsf htxf js ujwoznhnt ij Etwfnif;
vzj, uzjxyt vzj jq xjw jqqtx vznjs jwfs rj utiíf fxjlzwfw ijxyj yjrtw, hts
ytit jxt, st vznxj utsjw jq sjlthnt js fajsyzwf, d fxí, qtx mnhj wjxhfyfw
utw qf rnxrf twijs vzj dt rj wjxhfyé, jsywjlfsit ytit jq insjwt fq
rjwhfijw, ufwf vzj, hts hjwyjef d xjlzwnifi, uzinjxj mfhjw qf knfsef; fq
hzfq szshf ijxhzgwnrtx szjxywt ywfyt d xjhwjyt, utw jq ujqnlwt vzj mfgíf.





Hfuíyzqt CQN. Itsij ytifaíf uwtxnlzj jq hfzynat xz xzhjxt


»St xj ufxfwts vznshj iífx, hzfsit df szjxywt wjsjlfit yjsíf htruwfif zsf
rzd gzjsf gfwhf, hfufe ij ráx ij ywjnsyf ujwxtsfx: d, ufwf fxjlzwfw xz
mjhmt d ifqqj htqtw, vznxt mfhjw, htrt mnet, zs anfoj f zs qzlfw vzj xj
qqfrfgf Xfwljq, vzj jxyá ywjnsyf qjlzfx ij Fwljq mfhnf qf ufwyj ij Twás, js
jq hzfq mfd rzhmf htsywfyfhnós ij mnltx ufxtx. Itx t ywjx ajhjx mnet jxyj
anfoj, js htrufñíf ijq yflfwnst vzj mfgíf inhmt. Yflfwnstx qqfrfs js
Gjwgjwíf f qtx rtwtx ij Fwflós, d f qtx ij Lwfsfif, rziéofwjx; d js jq
wjnst ij Kje qqfrfs f qtx rziéofwjx jqhmjx, qtx hzfqjx xts qf ljsyj ij
vznjs fvzjq wjd ráx xj xnwaj js qf lzjwwf.

»Inlt, uzjx, vzj hfif aje vzj ufxfgf hts xz gfwhf ifgf ktsit js zsf hfqjyf
vzj jxyfgf st itx ynwtx ij gfqqjxyf ijq ofwiís itsij Etwfnif jxujwfgf; d
fqqí, rzd ij uwtuóxnyt, xj utsíf jq wjsjlfit hts qtx rtwnqqtx vzj gtlfgfs
jq wjrt, t df f mfhjw qf efqá, t f htrt utw jsxfdfwxj ij gzwqfx f qt vzj
ujsxfgf mfhjw ij ajwfx; d fxí, xj ngf fq ofwiís ij Etwfnif d qj ujiíf
kwzyf, d xz ufiwj xj qf ifgf xns htsthjqqj; d, fzsvzj éq vznxnjwf mfgqfw f
Etwfnif, htrt éq ijxuzéx rj inot, d ijhnqqj vzj éq jwf jq vzj utw twijs ríf
qj mfgíf ij qqjafw f ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, vzj jxyzanjxj htsyjsyf d xjlzwf,
szshf qj kzj utxngqj, utwvzj qfx rtwfx st xj ijofs ajw ij snslús rtwt sn
yzwht, xn st jx vzj xz rfwnit t xz ufiwj xj qt rfsijs. Ij hwnxynfstx
hfzynatx xj ijofs ywfyfw d htrzsnhfw, fzs ráx ij fvzjqqt vzj xjwíf
wfetsfgqj; d f rí rj mzgnjwf ujxfit vzj éq qf mzgnjwf mfgqfit, vzj vzneá qf
fqgtwtyfwf, anjsit vzj xz sjlthnt fsifgf js gthf ij wjsjlfitx. Ujwt Intx,
vzj qt twijsfgf ij tywf rfsjwf, st int qzlfw fq gzjs ijxjt vzj szjxywt
wjsjlfit yjsíf; jq hzfq, anjsit hzás xjlzwfrjsyj ngf d ajsíf f Xfwljq, d
vzj ifgf ktsit hzfsit d htrt d fitsij vzjwíf, d vzj jq yflfwnst, xz
htrufñjwt, st yjsíf ráx atqzsyfi ij qt vzj qf xzdf twijsfgf, d vzj dt
jxyfgf df wjxhfyfit, d vzj xóqt kfqyfgf gzxhfw fqlzstx hwnxynfstx vzj
gtlfxjs jq wjrt, rj inot vzj rnwfxj dt hzáqjx vzjwíf ywfjw htsrnlt, kzjwf
ij qtx wjxhfyfitx, d vzj qtx yzanjxj mfgqfitx ufwf jq uwnrjw anjwsjx, itsij
yjsíf ijyjwrnsfit vzj kzjxj szjxywf ufwynif. Anjsit jxyt, mfgqé f ithj
jxufñtqjx, ytitx afqnjsyjx mtrgwjx ijq wjrt, d ij fvzjqqtx vzj ráx
qngwjrjsyj utiífs xfqnw ij qf hnzifi; d st kzj utht mfqqfw yfsytx js
fvzjqqf htdzsyzwf, utwvzj jxyfgfs ajnsyj gfojqjx js htwxt, d xj mfgífs
qqjafit ytif qf ljsyj ij wjrt, d éxytx st xj mfqqfwfs, xn st kzjwf vzj xz
frt xj vzjió fvzjq ajwfst xns nw js htwxt, f fhfgfw zsf lfqjtyf vzj yjsíf
js fxynqqjwt. F qtx hzfqjx st qjx inoj tywf htxf, xnst vzj jq uwnrjw
anjwsjx js qf yfwij xj xfqnjxjs zst f zst, inxnrzqfifrjsyj, d xj kzjxjs qf
azjqyf ijq ofwiís ij Fln Rtwfyt, d vzj fqqí rj flzfwifxjs mfxyf vzj dt
kzjxj. F hfif zst in jxyj fanxt ij utw xí, hts twijs vzj, fzsvzj fqqí
anjxjs f tywtx hwnxynfstx, st qjx inojxjs xnst vzj dt qjx mfgíf rfsifit
jxujwfw js fvzjq qzlfw.

»Mjhmf jxyf inqnljshnf, rj kfqyfgf mfhjw tywf, vzj jwf qf vzj ráx rj
htsajsíf: d jwf qf ij fanxfw f Etwfnif js jq uzsyt vzj jxyfgfs qtx
sjlthntx, ufwf vzj jxyzanjxj fujwhjgnif d xtgwj fanxt, vzj st xj
xtgwjxfqyfxj xn ij nruwtanxt qf fxfqyáxjrtx fsyjx ijq ynjrut vzj jqqf utiíf
nrflnsfw vzj qf gfwhf ij hwnxynfstx utiíf atqajw. D fxí, ijyjwrnsé ij nw fq
ofwiís d ajw xn utiwíf mfgqfwqf; d, hts thfxnós ij htljw fqlzsfx djwgfx, zs
iíf, fsyjx ij rn ufwynif, kzn fqqá, d qf uwnrjwf ujwxtsf hts vznés jshtsywé
kzj hts xz ufiwj, jq hzfq rj inot, js qjslzf vzj js ytif qf Gjwgjwíf, d fzs
js Htxyfsynstuqf, xj mfqqf jsywj hfzynatx d rtwtx, vzj sn jx rtwnxhf, sn
hfxyjqqfsf, sn ij tywf sfhnós fqlzsf, xnst zsf rjehqf ij ytifx qfx qjslzfx
hts qf hzfq ytitx stx jsyjsijrtx; inlt, uzjx, vzj js jxyf rfsjwf ij
qjslzfoj rj uwjlzsyó vzj vzé gzxhfgf js fvzjq xz ofwiís, d ij vznés jwf.
Wjxutsiíqj vzj jwf jxhqfat ij Fwsfúyj Rfrí (d jxyt, utwvzj xfgíf dt utw rzd
hnjwyt vzj jwf zs lwfsiíxnrt frnlt xzdt), d vzj gzxhfgf ij ytifx djwgfx,
ufwf mfhjw jsxfqfif. Uwjlzsyórj, utw jq htsxnlznjsyj, xn jwf mtrgwj ij
wjxhfyj t st, d vzj hzásyt ujiíf rn frt utw rí. Jxyfsit js ytifx jxyfx
uwjlzsyfx d wjxuzjxyfx, xfqnó ij qf hfxf ijq ofwiís qf gjqqf Etwfnif, qf
hzfq df mfgíf rzhmt vzj rj mfgíf anxyt; d, htrt qfx rtwfx js snslzsf rfsjwf
mfhjs rjqnsiwj ij rtxywfwxj f qtx hwnxynfstx, sn yfrutht xj jxvznafs, htrt
df mj inhmt, st xj qj int sfif ij ajsnw fitsij xz ufiwj htsrnlt jxyfgf;
fsyjx, qzjlt hzfsit xz ufiwj ant vzj ajsíf, d ij jxufhnt, qf qqfró d rfsió
vzj qqjlfxj.

»Ijrfxnfif htxf xjwíf ijhnw dt fltwf qf rzhmf mjwrtxzwf, qf ljsynqjef, jq
lfqqfwit d wnht fitwst hts vzj rn vzjwnif Etwfnif xj rtxywó f rnx totx:
xóqt inwé vzj ráx ujwqfx ujsiífs ij xz mjwrtxíxnrt hzjqqt, twjofx d
hfgjqqtx, vzj hfgjqqtx yjsíf js qf hfgjef. Js qfx lfwlfsyfx ij qtx xzx
unjx, vzj ijxhzgnjwyfx, f xz zxfsef, ywfíf, ywfíf itx hfwhfojx (vzj fxí xj
qqfrfgfs qfx rfsnqqfx t fotwhfx ij qtx unjx js rtwnxht) ij uzwíxnrt twt,
hts yfsytx infrfsyjx jslfxyfitx, vzj jqqf rj inot ijxuzéx vzj xz ufiwj qtx
jxynrfgf js inje rnq itgqfx, d qfx vzj ywfíf js qfx rzñjhfx ij qfx rfstx
afqífs tywt yfsyt. Qfx ujwqfx jwfs js lwfs hfsynifi d rzd gzjsfx, utwvzj qf
rfdtw lfqf d gnefwwíf ij qfx rtwfx jx fitwsfwxj ij wnhfx ujwqfx d fqoókfw,
d fxí, mfd ráx ujwqfx d fqoókfw jsywj rtwtx vzj jsywj ytifx qfx ijráx
sfhntsjx; d jq ufiwj ij Etwfnif yjsíf kfrf ij yjsjw rzhmfx d ij qfx rjotwjx
vzj js Fwljq mfgíf, d ij yjsjw fxnrnxrt ráx ij ithnjsytx rnq jxhzitx
jxufñtqjx, ij ytit qt hzfq jwf xjñtwf jxyf vzj fmtwf qt jx ríf. Xn hts ytit
jxyj fitwst utiíf ajsnw jsytshjx mjwrtxf, t st, utw qfx wjqnvznfx vzj qj
mfs vzjifit js yfsytx ywfgfotx xj utiwá htsojyzwfw hzáq ijgíf ij xjw js qfx
uwtxujwnifijx. Utwvzj df xj xfgj vzj qf mjwrtxzwf ij fqlzsfx rzojwjx ynjsj
iífx d xfetsjx, d wjvznjwj fhhnijsyjx ufwf inrnsznwxj t fhwjhjsyfwxj; d jx
sfyzwfq htxf vzj qfx ufxntsjx ijq ásnrt qf qjafsyjs t fgfojs, uzjxyt vzj
qfx ráx ajhjx qf ijxywzdjs.

»Inlt, js kns, vzj jsytshjx qqjló js ytit jxywjrt fijwjefif d js ytit
jxywjrt mjwrtxf, t, f qt rjstx, f rí rj ufwjhnó xjwqt qf ráx vzj mfxyf
jsytshjx mfgíf anxyt; d hts jxyt, anjsit qfx tgqnlfhntsjx js vzj rj mfgíf
uzjxyt, rj ufwjhíf vzj yjsíf ijqfsyj ij rí zsf ijnifi ijq hnjqt, ajsnif f
qf ynjwwf ufwf rn lzxyt d ufwf rn wjrjint. Fxí htrt jqqf qqjló, qj inot xz
ufiwj js xz qjslzf htrt dt jwf hfzynat ij xz frnlt Fwsfúyj Rfrí, d vzj
ajsíf f gzxhfw jsxfqfif. Jqqf ytró qf rfst, d js fvzjqqf rjehqf ij qjslzfx
vzj yjslt inhmt rj uwjlzsyó xn jwf hfgfqqjwt d vzé jwf qf hfzxf vzj st rj
wjxhfyfgf. Dt qj wjxutsií vzj df jxyfgf wjxhfyfit, d vzj js jq uwjhnt utiíf
jhmfw ij ajw js qt vzj rn frt rj jxynrfgf, uzjx mfgíf ifit utw rí rnq d
vznsnjsytx etqyfsíx. F qt hzfq jqqf wjxutsinó: ''Js ajwifi vzj xn yú kzjwfx
ij rn ufiwj, vzj dt mnhnjwf vzj st yj injwf éq utw tywtx itx yfsytx, utwvzj
atxtywtx, hwnxynfstx, xnjruwj rjsyíx js hzfsyt ijhíx, d tx mfhénx utgwjx
utw jslfñfw f qtx rtwtx''. ''Gnjs utiwíf xjw jxt, xjñtwf -qj wjxutsií-, rfx
js ajwifi vzj dt qf mj ywfyfit hts rn frt, d qf ywfyt d qf ywfyfwé hts
hzfsyfx ujwxtsfx mfd js jq rzsit''. ''D ¿hzásit yj afx?'', inot Etwfnif.
''Rfñfsf, hwjt dt -inoj-, utwvzj jxyá fvzí zs gfojq ij Kwfshnf vzj xj mfhj
rfñfsf f qf ajqf, d unjsxt nwrj js éq''. ''¿St jx rjotw -wjuqnhó Etwfnif-,
jxujwfw f vzj ajslfs gfojqjx ij Jxufñf, d nwyj hts jqqtx, vzj st hts qtx ij
Kwfshnf, vzj st xts azjxywtx frnltx?'' ''St -wjxutsií dt-, fzsvzj xn htrt
mfd szjafx vzj anjsj df zs gfojq ij Jxufñf, jx ajwifi, ytifaíf dt qj
flzfwifwé, uzjxyt vzj jx ráx hnjwyt jq ufwynwrj rfñfsf; utwvzj jq ijxjt vzj
yjslt ij ajwrj js rn ynjwwf, d hts qfx ujwxtsfx vzj gnjs vznjwt, jx yfsyt
vzj st rj ijofwá jxujwfw tywf htrtinifi, xn xj yfwif, utw rjotw vzj xjf''.
''Ijgjx ij xjw, xns izif, hfxfit js yz ynjwwf -inot Etwfnif-, d utw jxt
ijxjfx nw f ajwyj hts yz rzojw''. ''St xtd -wjxutsií dt- hfxfit, rfx yjslt
ifif qf ufqfgwf ij hfxfwrj js qqjlfsit fqqá''. ''D ¿jx mjwrtxf qf ifrf f
vznjs xj qf inxyj?'', inot Etwfnif. ''Yfs mjwrtxf jx -wjxutsií dt- vzj ufwf
jshfwjhjqqf d ijhnwyj qf ajwifi, yj ufwjhj f yn rzhmt''. Ijxyt xj wndó rzd
ij ajwfx xz ufiwj, d inot: ''Lzfqá, hwnxynfst, vzj ijgj ij xjw rzd mjwrtxf
xn xj ufwjhj f rn mnof, vzj jx qf ráx mjwrtxf ij ytit jxyj wjnst. Xn st,
ríwfqf gnjs, d ajwáx hórt yj inlt ajwifi''. Xjwaífstx ij nsyéwuwjyj f qfx
ráx ij jxyfx ufqfgwfx d wfetsjx jq ufiwj ij Etwfnif, htrt ráx qfinst; vzj,
fzsvzj jqqf mfgqfgf qf gfxyfwif qjslzf vzj, htrt mj inhmt, fqqí xj zxf, ráx
ijhqfwfgf xz nsyjshnós utw xjñfx vzj utw ufqfgwfx.

»Jxyfsit js jxyfx d tywfx rzhmfx wfetsjx, qqjló zs rtwt htwwnjsit, d inot,
f lwfsijx athjx, vzj utw qfx gfwifx t ufwjijx ijq ofwiís mfgífs xfqyfit
hzfywt yzwhtx, d fsifgfs htlnjsit qf kwzyf, fzsvzj st jxyfgf rfizwf.
Xtgwjxfqyóxj jq anjot, d qt rjxrt mnet Etwfnif, utwvzj jx htrús d hfxn
sfyzwfq jq rnjit vzj qtx rtwtx f qtx yzwhtx ynjsjs, jxujhnfqrjsyj f qtx
xtqifitx, qtx hzfqjx xts yfs nsxtqjsyjx d ynjsjs yfsyt nrujwnt xtgwj qtx
rtwtx vzj f jqqtx jxyás xzojytx, vzj qtx ywfyfs ujtw vzj xn kzjxjs jxhqfatx
xzdtx. Inlt, uzjx, vzj inot xz ufiwj f Etwfnif: ''Mnof, wjyíwfyj f qf hfxf
d jshnéwwfyj, js yfsyt vzj dt atd f mfgqfw f jxytx hfsjx; d yú, hwnxynfst,
gzxhf yzx djwgfx, d ajyj js gzjs mtwf, d qqéajyj Fqá hts gnjs f yz
ynjwwf''. Dt rj nshqnsé, d éq xj kzj f gzxhfw qtx yzwhtx, ijoásitrj xtqt
hts Etwfnif, vzj htrjseó f ifw rzjxywfx ij nwxj itsij xz ufiwj qf mfgíf
rfsifit. Ujwt, fujsfx éq xj jshzgwnó hts qtx áwgtqjx ijq ofwiís, hzfsit
jqqf, atqanésitxj f rí, qqjstx qtx totx ij qálwnrfx, rj inot: ''Árjcn,
hwnxynfst, árjcn''; vzj vznjwj ijhnw: "¿Afxyj, hwnxynfst, afxyj?" Dt qf
wjxutsií: ''Xjñtwf, xí, ujwt st js snslzsf rfsjwf xns yn: jq uwnrjwt ozrá
rj flzfwif, d st yj xtgwjxfqyjx hzfsit stx ajfx; vzj xns izif fqlzsf nwjrtx
f ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx''.

»Dt qj inoj jxyt ij rfsjwf vzj jqqf rj jsyjsinó rzd gnjs f ytifx qfx
wfetsjx vzj jsywfrgtx ufxfrtx; d, jhmásitrj zs gwfet fq hzjqqt, hts
ijxrfdfitx ufxtx htrjseó f hfrnsfw mfhnf qf hfxf; d vznxt qf xzjwyj, vzj
uzinjwf xjw rzd rfqf xn jq hnjqt st qt twijsfwf ij tywf rfsjwf, vzj, djsit
qtx itx ij qf rfsjwf d utxyzwf vzj tx mj htsyfit, hts zs gwfet fq hzjqqt,
xz ufiwj, vzj df atqaíf ij mfhjw nw f qtx yzwhtx, stx ant ij qf xzjwyj d
rfsjwf vzj ígfrtx, d stxtywtx anrtx vzj éq stx mfgíf anxyt; ujwt Etwfnif,
fiajwynif d inxhwjyf, st vznxt vznyfw jq gwfet ij rn hzjqqt, fsyjx xj qqjló
ráx f rí d uzxt xz hfgjef xtgwj rn ujhmt, itgqfsit zs utht qfx wtinqqfx,
ifsit hqfwfx xjñfqjx d rzjxywfx vzj xj ijxrfdfgf, d dt, fsxnrnxrt, in f
jsyjsijw vzj qf xtxyjsíf htsywf rn atqzsyfi. Xz ufiwj qqjló htwwnjsit
fitsij jxyágfrtx, d, anjsit f xz mnof ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf, qj uwjlzsyó vzj
vzé yjsíf; ujwt, htrt jqqf st qj wjxutsinjxj, inot xz ufiwj: ''Xns izif
fqlzsf vzj hts jq xtgwjxfqyt ij qf jsywfif ij jxytx hfsjx xj mf
ijxrfdfit''. D, vznyásitqf ijq rít, qf fwwnró f xz ujhmt; d jqqf, ifsit zs
xzxunwt d fús st jsozytx qtx totx ij qálwnrfx, atqanó f ijhnw: ''Árjcn,
hwnxynfst, árjcn'': "Ajyj, hwnxynfst, ajyj". F qt vzj xz ufiwj wjxutsinó:
''St nrutwyf, mnof, vzj jq hwnxynfst xj afdf, vzj snslús rfq yj mf mjhmt, d
qtx yzwhtx df xts nitx. St yj xtgwjxfqyj htxf fqlzsf, uzjx snslzsf mfd vzj
uzjif ifwyj ujxfizrgwj, uzjx, htrt df yj mj inhmt, qtx yzwhtx, f rn wzjlt,
xj atqanjwts utw itsij jsywfwts''. ''Jqqtx, xjñtw, qf xtgwjxfqyfwts, htrt
mfx inhmt -inoj dt f xz ufiwj-; rfx, uzjx jqqf inhj vzj dt rj afdf, st qf
vznjwt ifw ujxfizrgwj: vzéifyj js ufe, d, hts yz qnhjshnf, atqajwé, xn
kzjwj rjsjxyjw, utw djwgfx f jxyj ofwiís; vzj, xjlús inhj rn frt, js
snslzst qfx mfd rjotwjx ufwf jsxfqfif vzj js éq''. ''Ytifx qfx vzj
vznxnjwjx utiwáx atqajw -wjxutsinó Fln Rtwfyt-, vzj rn mnof st inhj jxyt
utwvzj yú sn snslzst ij qtx hwnxynfstx qf jstofgfs, xnst vzj, utw ijhnw vzj
qtx yzwhtx xj kzjxjs, inot vzj yú yj kzjxjx, t utwvzj df jwf mtwf vzj
gzxhfxjx yzx djwgfx''.

»Hts jxyt, rj ijxujií fq uzsyt ij jsywfrgtx; d jqqf, fwwfshásitxjqj jq
fqrf, fq ufwjhjw, xj kzj hts xz ufiwj; d dt, hts fhmfvzj ij gzxhfw qfx
djwgfx, wtijé rzd gnjs d f rn uqfhjw ytit jq ofwiís: rnwé gnjs qfx jsywfifx
d xfqnifx, d qf ktwyfqjef ij qf hfxf, d qf htrtinifi vzj xj utiíf tkwjhjw
ufwf kfhnqnyfw ytit szjxywt sjlthnt. Mjhmt jxyt, rj ansj d in hzjsyf ij
hzfsyt mfgíf ufxfit fq wjsjlfit d f rnx htrufñjwtx; d df st ajíf qf mtwf ij
ajwrj ltefw xns xtgwjxfqyt ijq gnjs vzj js qf mjwrtxf d gjqqf Etwfnif qf
xzjwyj rj tkwjhíf.

»Js kns, jq ynjrut xj ufxó, d xj qqjló jq iíf d uqfet ij stxtywtx yfs
ijxjfit; d, xnlznjsit ytitx jq twijs d ufwjhjw vzj, hts inxhwjyf
htsxnijwfhnós d qfwlt inxhzwxt, rzhmfx ajhjx mfgífrtx ifit, yzanrtx jq gzjs
xzhjxt vzj ijxjágfrtx; utwvzj jq anjwsjx vzj xj xnlznó fq iíf vzj dt hts
Etwfnif mfgqé js jq ofwiís, szjxywt wjsjlfit, fq fsthmjhjw, int ktsit hts
qf gfwhf hfxn kwtsyjwt ij itsij qf mjwrtxíxnrf Etwfnif jxyfgf. Df qtx
hwnxynfstx vzj mfgífs ij gtlfw jq wjrt jxyfgfs uwjajsnitx d jxhtsinitx utw
inajwxfx ufwyjx ij ytitx fvzjqqtx fqwjijitwjx. Ytitx jxyfgfs xzxujsxtx d
fqgtwtefitx, flzfwiásitrj, ijxjtxtx df ij jrgjxynw hts jq gfojq vzj f qtx
totx yjsífs; utwvzj jqqtx st xfgífs jq htshnjwyt ijq wjsjlfit, xnst vzj
ujsxfgfs vzj f kzjwef ij gwfetx mfgífs ij mfgjw d lfsfw qf qngjwyfi,
vznyfsit qf anif f qtx rtwtx vzj ijsywt ij qf gfwhf jxyfgfs.

»Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, fxí htrt dt rj rtxywé d rnx htrufñjwtx, ytitx qtx
ijráx jxhtsinitx vzj stx anjwts xj ansnjwts qqjlfsit f stxtywtx. Jxyt jwf
df f ynjrut vzj qf hnzifi jxyfgf df hjwwfif, d utw ytif fvzjqqf hfrufñf
snslzsf ujwxtsf ufwjhíf. Htrt jxyzanrtx ozsytx, izifrtx xn xjwíf rjotw nw
uwnrjwt utw Etwfnif, t wjsinw uwnrjwt f qtx rtwtx gflfwnstx vzj gtlfgfs jq
wjrt js qf gfwhf. D, jxyfsit js jxyf izif, qqjló f stxtywtx szjxywt
wjsjlfit inhnésitstx vzj js vzé stx ijyjsífrtx, vzj df jwf mtwf, d vzj
ytitx xzx rtwtx jxyfgfs ijxhznifitx, d qtx ráx ijqqtx izwrnjsit. Inoírtxqj
js qt vzj wjufwágfrtx, d éq inot vzj qt vzj ráx nrutwyfgf jwf wjsinw
uwnrjwt jq gfojq, vzj xj utiíf mfhjw hts lwfsiíxnrf kfhnqnifi d xns ujqnlwt
fqlzst, d vzj qzjlt utiífrtx nw utw Etwfnif. Ufwjhnóstx gnjs f ytitx qt vzj
ijhíf, d fxí, xns ijyjsjwstx ráx, mfhnjsit éq qf lzíf, qqjlfrtx fq gfojq,
d, xfqyfsit éq ijsywt uwnrjwt, rjynó rfst f zs fqkfsoj, d inot js rtwnxht:
''Snslzst ij atxtywtx xj rzjaf ij fvzí, xn st vznjwj vzj qj hzjxyj qf
anif''. Df, f jxyj ynjrut, mfgífs jsywfit ijsywt hfxn ytitx qtx hwnxynfstx.
Qtx rtwtx, vzj jwfs ij utht ásnrt, anjsit mfgqfw ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf f xz
fwwáje, vzjiáwtsxj jxufsyfitx, d xns snslzst ij ytitx jqqtx jhmfw rfst f
qfx fwrfx, vzj uthfx t hfxn snslzsfx yjsífs, xj ijofwts, xns mfgqfw fqlzsf
ufqfgwf, rfsnfyfw ij qtx hwnxynfstx, qtx hzfqjx hts rzhmf uwjxyjef qt
mnhnjwts, frjsfefsit f qtx rtwtx vzj xn fqefgfs utw fqlzsf aíf t rfsjwf qf
ate, vzj qzjlt fq uzsyt qtx ufxfwífs ytitx f hzhmnqqt.

»Mjhmt df jxyt, vzjiásitxj js lzfwinf ijqqtx qf rnyfi ij qtx szjxywtx, qtx
vzj vzjiágfrtx, mfhnésitstx fxnrnxrt jq wjsjlfit qf lzíf, kznrtx fq ofwiís
ij Fln Rtwfyt, d vznxt qf gzjsf xzjwyj vzj, qqjlfsit f fgwnw qf uzjwyf, xj
fgwnó hts yfsyf kfhnqnifi htrt xn hjwwfif st jxyzanjwf; d fxí, hts lwfs
vznjyzi d xnqjshnt, qqjlfrtx f qf hfxf xns xjw xjsynitx ij sfinj. Jxyfgf qf
gjqqíxnrf Etwfnif flzfwiásitstx f zsf ajsyfsf, d, fxí htrt xnsynó ljsyj,
uwjlzsyó hts ate gfof xn éwfrtx snefwfsn, htrt xn inojwf t uwjlzsyfwf xn
éwfrtx hwnxynfstx. Dt qj wjxutsií vzj xí, d vzj gfofxj. Hzfsit jqqf rj
htsthnó, st xj ijyzat zs uzsyt, utwvzj, xns wjxutsijwrj ufqfgwf, gfoó js zs
nsxyfsyj, fgwnó qf uzjwyf d rtxywóxj f ytitx yfs mjwrtxf d wnhfrjsyj
ajxynif vzj st qt fhnjwyt f jshfwjhjw. Qzjlt vzj dt qf an, qj ytré zsf
rfst d qf htrjshé f gjxfw, d jq wjsjlfit mnet qt rnxrt, d rnx itx
hfrfwfifx; d qtx ijráx, vzj jq hfxt st xfgífs, mnhnjwts qt vzj anjwts vzj
stxtywtx mfhífrtx, vzj st ufwjhíf xnst vzj qj iágfrtx qfx lwfhnfx d qf
wjhtsthífrtx utw xjñtwf ij szjxywf qngjwyfi. Jq wjsjlfit qj inot js qjslzf
rtwnxhf xn jxyfgf xz ufiwj js jq ofwiís. Jqqf wjxutsinó vzj xí d vzj
itwríf. ''Uzjx xjwá rjsjxyjw ijxujwyfqqj -wjuqnhó jq wjsjlfit-, d
qqjaáwstxqj hts stxtywtx, d ytit fvzjqqt vzj ynjsj ij afqtw jxyj mjwrtxt
ofwiís.'' ''St -inot jqqf-, f rn ufiwj st xj mf ij ythfw js snslús rtit, d
js jxyf hfxf st mfd tywf htxf vzj qt vzj dt qqjat, vzj jx yfsyt, vzj gnjs
mfgwá ufwf vzj ytitx vzjiénx wnhtx d htsyjsytx; d jxujwfwtx zs utht d qt
ajwénx''. D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj atqanó f jsywfw, inhnjsit vzj rzd uwjxyt
atqajwíf; vzj stx jxyzanéxjrtx vzjitx, xns mfhjw snslús wznit. Uwjlzsyéqj
fq wjsjlfit qt vzj hts jqqf mfgíf ufxfit, jq hzfq rj qt htsyó, f vznjs dt
inoj vzj js snslzsf htxf xj mfgíf ij mfhjw ráx ij qt vzj Etwfnif vznxnjxj;
qf hzfq df vzj atqaíf hfwlfif hts zs htkwjhnqqt qqjst ij jxhzitx ij twt,
yfsytx, vzj fujsfx qt utiíf xzxyjsyfw, vznxt qf rfqf xzjwyj vzj xz ufiwj
ijxujwyfxj js jq ísyjwns d xnsynjxj jq wznit vzj fsifgf js jq ofwiís; d,
fxtrásitxj f qf ajsyfsf, qzjlt htsthnó vzj ytitx qtx vzj js éq jxyfgfs jwfs
hwnxynfstx; d, ifsit rzhmfx, lwfsijx d ijxfktwfifx athjx, htrjseó f ijhnw
js fwágnlt: ''¡Hwnxynfstx, hwnxynfstx! ¡Qfiwtsjx, qfiwtsjx!''; utw qtx
hzfqjx lwnytx stx anrtx ytitx uzjxytx js lwfsiíxnrf d yjrjwtxf htskzxnós.
Ujwt jq wjsjlfit, anjsit jq ujqnlwt js vzj jxyágfrtx, d qt rzhmt vzj qj
nrutwyfgf xfqnw hts fvzjqqf jruwjxf fsyjx ij xjw xjsynit, hts lwfsiíxnrf
uwjxyjef, xzgnó itsij Fln Rtwfyt jxyfgf, d ozsyfrjsyj hts éq kzjwts fqlzstx
ij stxtywtx; vzj dt st txé ijxfrufwfw f qf Etwfnif, vzj htrt ijxrfdfif xj
mfgíf ijofit hfjw js rnx gwfetx. Js wjxtqzhnós, qtx vzj xzgnjwts xj injwts
yfs gzjsf rfñf vzj js zs rtrjsyt gfofwts hts Fln Rtwfyt, ywfdésitqj fyfifx
qfx rfstx d uzjxyt zs ufñnezjqt js qf gthf, vzj st qj ijofgf mfgqfw
ufqfgwf, frjsfeásitqj vzj jq mfgqfwqf qj mfgíf ij htxyfw qf anif. Hzfsit xz
mnof qj ant, xj hzgwnó qtx totx utw st ajwqj, d xz ufiwj vzjió jxufsyfit,
nlstwfsit hzás ij xz atqzsyfi xj mfgíf uzjxyt js szjxywfx rfstx. Rfx,
jsytshjx xnjsit ráx sjhjxfwntx qtx unjx, hts inqnljshnf d uwjxyjef stx
uzxnrtx js qf gfwhf; vzj df qtx vzj js jqqf mfgífs vzjifit stx jxujwfgfs,
yjrjwtxtx ij fqlús rfq xzhjxt szjxywt.

»Fujsfx xjwífs itx mtwfx ufxfifx ij qf sthmj, hzfsit df jxyágfrtx ytitx js
qf gfwhf, js qf hzfq xj qj vznyó fq ufiwj ij Etwfnif qf fyfizwf ij qfx
rfstx d jq ufñt ij qf gthf; ujwt ytwsóqj f ijhnw jq wjsjlfit vzj st mfgqfxj
ufqfgwf, vzj qj vznyfwífs qf anif. Éq, htrt ant fqqí f xz mnof, htrjseó f
xzxunwfw yjwsíxnrfrjsyj, d ráx hzfsit ant vzj dt jxywjhmfrjsyj qf yjsíf
fgwfefif, d vzj jqqf xns ijkjsijw, vzjofwxj sn jxvznafwxj, xj jxyfgf vzjif;
ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, hfqqfgf, utwvzj st uzxnjxjs js jkjyt qfx rzhmfx
frjsfefx vzj jq wjsjlfit qj mfhíf. Anésitxj, uzjx, Etwfnif df js qf gfwhf,
d vzj vzjwífrtx ifw qtx wjrtx fq flzf, d anjsit fqqí f xz ufiwj d f qtx
ijráx rtwtx vzj fyfitx jxyfgfs, qj inot fq wjsjlfit vzj rj inojxj qj
mnhnjxj rjwhji ij xtqyfw f fvzjqqtx rtwtx d ij ifw qngjwyfi f xz ufiwj,
utwvzj fsyjx xj fwwtofwíf js qf rfw vzj ajw ijqfsyj ij xzx totx d utw hfzxf
xzdf qqjafw hfzynat f zs ufiwj vzj yfsyt qf mfgíf vzjwnit. Jq wjsjlfit rj
qt inot; d dt wjxutsií vzj jwf rzd htsyjsyt; ujwt éq wjxutsinó vzj st
htsajsíf, f hfzxf vzj, xn fqqí qtx ijofgfs fujqqnifwífs qzjlt qf ynjwwf d
fqgtwtyfwífs qf hnzifi, d xjwífs hfzxf vzj xfqnjxjs f gzxhfqqtx hts fqlzsfx
kwflfyfx qnljwfx, d qjx ytrfxjs qf ynjwwf d qf rfw, ij rfsjwf vzj st
uzinéxjrtx jxhfufwstx; vzj qt vzj xj utiwíf mfhjw jwf ifwqjx qngjwyfi js
qqjlfsit f qf uwnrjwf ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx. Js jxyj ufwjhjw ajsnrtx ytitx,
d Etwfnif, f vznjs xj qj int hzjsyf, hts qfx hfzxfx vzj stx rtaífs f st
mfhjw qzjlt qt vzj vzjwíf, yfrgnés xj xfynxknet; d qzjlt, hts wjlthnofit
xnqjshnt d fqjlwj inqnljshnf, hfif zst ij szjxywtx afqnjsyjx wjrjwtx ytró
xz wjrt, d htrjsefrtx, jshtrjsiásitstx f Intx ij ytit htwfeós, f sfajlfw qf
azjqyf ij qfx nxqfx ij Rfqqtwhf, vzj jx qf ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx ráx hjwhf.

»Ujwt, f hfzxf ij xtuqfw zs utht jq anjsyt ywfrtsyfsf d jxyfw qf rfw fqlt
unhfif, st kzj utxngqj xjlznw qf ijwwtyf ij Rfqqtwhf, d kzjstx ktwetxt
ijofwstx nw ynjwwf f ynjwwf qf azjqyf ij Twás, st xns rzhmf ujxfizrgwj
szjxywf, utw st xjw ijxhzgnjwytx ijq qzlfw ij Xfwljq, vzj js fvzjqqf htxyf
hfj xjxjsyf rnqqfx ij Fwljq. D, fxnrnxrt, yjrífrtx jshtsywfw utw fvzjq
ufwfoj fqlzsf lfqjtyf ij qfx vzj ij twinsfwnt anjsjs hts rjwhfshíf ij
Yjyzás, fzsvzj hfif zst utw xí, d ytitx ozsytx, uwjxzrífrtx ij vzj, xn xj
jshtsywfgf lfqjtyf ij rjwhfshíf, htrt st kzjxj ij qfx vzj fsifs js htwxt,
vzj st xóqt st stx ujwijwífrtx, rfx vzj ytrfwífrtx gfojq itsij hts ráx
xjlzwnifi uzinéxjrtx fhfgfw szjxywt anfoj. Ngf Etwfnif, js yfsyt vzj xj
sfajlfgf, uzjxyf qf hfgjef jsywj rnx rfstx, utw st ajw f xz ufiwj, d xjsyíf
dt vzj ngf qqfrfsit f Qjqf Rfwnés vzj stx fdzifxj.

»Gnjs mfgwífrtx sfajlfit ywjnsyf rnqqfx, hzfsit stx frfsjhnó, htrt ywjx
ynwtx ij fwhfgze ijxanfitx ij ynjwwf, ytif qf hzfq anrtx ijxnjwyf d xns
sfinj vzj stx ijxhzgwnjxj; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, stx kznrtx f kzjwef ij
gwfetx jsywfsit zs utht js qf rfw, vzj df jxyfgf fqlt ráx xtxjlfif; d,
mfgnjsit jsywfit hfxn itx qjlzfx, intxj twijs vzj xj gtlfxj f hzfwyjqjx js
yfsyt vzj htrífrtx fqlt, vzj ngf gnjs uwtajíif qf gfwhf, uzjxyt vzj qtx vzj
gtlfgfs inojwts vzj st jwf fvzéq ynjrut ij ytrfw wjutxt fqlzst, vzj qjx
injxjs ij htrjw qtx vzj st gtlfgfs, vzj jqqtx st vzjwífs xtqyfw qtx wjrtx
ij qfx rfstx js rfsjwf fqlzsf. Míetxj fsxí, d js jxyt htrjseó f xtuqfw zs
anjsyt qfwlt, vzj stx tgqnló f mfhjw qzjlt ajqf d f ijofw jq wjrt, d
jsijwjefw f Twás, utw st xjw utxngqj utijw mfhjw tywt anfoj. Ytit xj mnet
hts rzhmíxnrf uwjxyjef; d fxí, f qf ajqf, sfajlfrtx utw ráx ij thmt rnqqfx
utw mtwf, xns qqjafw tywt yjrtw fqlzst xnst jq ij jshtsywfw hts gfojq vzj
ij htwxt kzjxj.

»Inrtx ij htrjw f qtx rtwtx gflfwnstx, d jq wjsjlfit qjx htsxtqó
inhnésitqjx htrt st ngfs hfzynatx, vzj js qf uwnrjwf thfxnós qjx ifwífs
qngjwyfi. Qt rnxrt xj qj inot fq ufiwj ij Etwfnif, jq hzfq wjxutsinó:
''Hzfqvznjwf tywf htxf uzinjwf dt jxujwfw d hwjjw ij azjxywf qngjwfqnifi d
gzjs yéwrnst, ¡tm hwnxynfstx!, rfx jq ifwrj qngjwyfi, st rj yjslánx utw yfs
xnruqj vzj qt nrflnsj; vzj szshf tx uzxnxyjx atxtywtx fq ujqnlwt ij
vznyáwrjqf ufwf atqajwqf yfs qngjwfqrjsyj, jxujhnfqrjsyj xfgnjsit vznés xtd
dt, d jq nsyjwjxj vzj xj tx uzjij xjlznw ij iáwrjqf; jq hzfq nsyjwjxj, xn
qj vzjwénx utsjw strgwj, ijxij fvzí tx tkwjeht ytit fvzjqqt vzj vznxnéwjijx
utw rí d utw jxf ijxinhmfif mnof ríf, t xn st, utw jqqf xtqf, vzj jx qf
rfdtw d qf rjotw ufwyj ij rn fqrf''. Js inhnjsit jxyt, htrjseó f qqtwfw yfs
frfwlfrjsyj vzj f ytitx stx rtanó f htrufxnós, d ktweó f Etwfnif vzj qj
rnwfxj; qf hzfq, anésitqj qqtwfw, fxí xj jsyjwsjhnó vzj xj qjafsyó ij rnx
unjx d kzj f fgwfefw f xz ufiwj, d, ozsyfsit xz wtxywt hts jq xzdt,
htrjsefwts qtx itx yfs ynjwst qqfsyt vzj rzhmtx ij qtx vzj fqqí ígfrtx qj
fhtrufñfrtx js éq. Ujwt, hzfsit xz ufiwj qf ant fitwsfif ij knjxyf d hts
yfsyfx otdfx xtgwj xí, qj inot js xz qjslzf: ''¿Vzé jx jxyt, mnof, vzj fdjw
fq fsthmjhjw, fsyjx vzj stx xzhjinjxj jxyf yjwwngqj ijxlwfhnf js vzj stx
ajrtx, yj an hts yzx twinsfwntx d hfxjwtx ajxynitx, d fltwf, xns vzj mfdfx
yjsnit ynjrut ij ajxynwyj d xns mfgjwyj ifit fqlzsf szjaf fqjlwj ij
xtqjsnefqqj hts fitwsfwyj d uzqnwyj, yj ajt htruzjxyf hts qtx rjotwjx
ajxynitx vzj dt xzuj d uzij ifwyj hzfsit stx kzj qf ajsyzwf ráx kfatwfgqj?
Wjxuósijrj f jxyt, vzj rj ynjsj ráx xzxujsxt d firnwfit vzj qf rnxrf
ijxlwfhnf js vzj rj mfqqt''.

»Ytit qt vzj jq rtwt ijhíf f xz mnof stx qt ijhqfwfgf jq wjsjlfit, d jqqf
st qj wjxutsiíf ufqfgwf. Ujwt, hzfsit éq ant f zs qfit ij qf gfwhf jq
htkwjhnqqt itsij jqqf xtqíf yjsjw xzx otdfx, jq hzfq xfgíf éq gnjs vzj qj
mfgíf ijofit js Fwljq, d st ywfíitqj fq ofwiís, vzjió ráx htskzxt, d
uwjlzsyóqj vzj hórt fvzjq htkwj mfgíf ajsnit f szjxywfx rfstx, d vzé jwf qt
vzj ajsíf ijsywt. F qt hzfq jq wjsjlfit, xns flzfwifw vzj Etwfnif qj
wjxutsinjxj, qj wjxutsinó: ''St yj hfsxjx, xjñtw, js uwjlzsyfw f Etwfnif,
yz mnof, yfsyfx htxfx, utwvzj hts zsf vzj dt yj wjxutsif yj xfynxkfwé f
ytifx; d fxí, vznjwt vzj xjufx vzj jqqf jx hwnxynfsf, d jx qf vzj mf xnit
qf qnrf ij szjxywfx hfijsfx d qf qngjwyfi ij szjxywt hfzynajwnt; jqqf af
fvzí ij xz atqzsyfi, yfs htsyjsyf, f qt vzj dt nrflnst, ij ajwxj js jxyj
jxyfit, htrt jq vzj xfqj ij qfx ynsnjgqfx f qf qze, ij qf rzjwyj f qf anif
d ij qf ujsf f qf lqtwnf''. ''¿Jx ajwifi qt vzj éxyj inhj, mnof?'', inot jq
rtwt. ''Fxí jx'', wjxutsinó Etwfnif. ''¿Vzj, js jkjyt -wjuqnhó jq anjot-,
yú jwjx hwnxynfsf, d qf vzj mf uzjxyt f xz ufiwj js utijw ij xzx
jsjrnltx?'' F qt hzfq wjxutsinó Etwfnif: ''Qf vzj jx hwnxynfsf dt xtd, ujwt
st qf vzj yj mf uzjxyt js jxyj uzsyt, utwvzj szshf rn ijxjt xj jxyjsinó f
ijofwyj sn f mfhjwyj rfq, xnst f mfhjwrj f rí gnjs''. ''D ¿vzé gnjs jx jq
vzj yj mfx mjhmt, mnof?'' ''Jxt -wjxutsinó jqqf- uwjlúsyfxjqt yú f Qjqf
Rfwnés, vzj jqqf yj qt xfgwá ijhnw rjotw vzj st dt''.

»Fujsfx mzgt tíit jxyt jq rtwt, hzfsit, hts zsf nshwjígqj uwjxyjef, xj
fwwtoó ij hfgjef js qf rfw, itsij xns snslzsf izif xj fmtlfwf, xn jq
ajxynit qfwlt d jrgfwfetxt vzj ywfíf st qj jsywjyzanjwf zs utht xtgwj jq
flzf. Int athjx Etwfnif vzj qj xfhfxjs, d fxí, fhzinrtx qzjlt ytitx, d,
fxnésitqj ij qf fqrfqfkf, qj xfhfrtx rjint fmtlfit d xns xjsynit, ij vzj
wjhngnó yfsyf ujsf Etwfnif vzj, htrt xn kzjwf df rzjwyt, mfhíf xtgwj éq zs
ynjwst d itqtwtxt qqfsyt. Atqaírtxqj gthf fgfot, atqanó rzhmf flzf, ytwsó
js xí fq hfgt ij itx mtwfx, js qfx hzfqjx, mfgnésitxj ywthfit jq anjsyt,
stx htsanst atqajw mfhnf ynjwwf, d mfhjw kzjwef ij wjrtx, utw st jrgjxynw
js jqqf; rfx vznxt szjxywf gzjsf xzjwyj vzj qqjlfrtx f zsf hfqf vzj xj mfhj
fq qfit ij zs ujvzjñt uwtrtsytwnt t hfgt vzj ij qtx rtwtx jx qqfrfit jq ij
Qf Hfaf Wzríf, vzj js szjxywf qjslzf vznjwj ijhnw Qf rfqf rzojw hwnxynfsf;
d jx ywfinhnós jsywj qtx rtwtx vzj js fvzjq qzlfw jxyá jsyjwwfif qf Hfaf,
utw vznjs xj ujwinó Jxufñf, utwvzj hfaf js xz qjslzf vznjwj ijhnw rzojw
rfqf, d wzríf, hwnxynfsf; d fzs ynjsjs utw rfq flüjwt qqjlfw fqqí f ifw
ktsit hzfsit qf sjhjxnifi qjx kzjwef f jqqt, utwvzj szshf qj ifs xns jqqf;
uzjxyt vzj ufwf stxtywtx st kzj fgwnlt ij rfqf rzojw, xnst uzjwyt xjlzwt ij
szjxywt wjrjint, xjlús fsifgf fqyjwfif qf rfw.

»Uzxnrtx szjxywfx hjsynsjqfx js ynjwwf, d st ijofrtx ofráx qtx wjrtx ij qf
rfst; htrnrtx ij qt vzj jq wjsjlfit mfgíf uwtajíit, d wtlfrtx f Intx d f
Szjxywf Xjñtwf, ij ytit szjxywt htwfeós, vzj stx fdzifxj d kfatwjhnjxj ufwf
vzj kjqnhjrjsyj inéxjrtx kns f yfs inhmtxt uwnshnunt. Intxj twijs, f
xzuqnhfhnós ij Etwfnif, htrt jhmáxjrtx js ynjwwf f xz ufiwj d f ytitx qtx
ijráx rtwtx vzj fqqí fyfitx ajsífs, utwvzj st qj gfxyfgf jq ásnrt, sn qt
utiífs xzkwnw xzx gqfsifx jsywfñfx, ajw ijqfsyj ij xzx totx fyfit f xz
ufiwj d fvzjqqtx ij xz ynjwwf uwjxtx. Uwtrjyírtxqj ij mfhjwqt fxí fq ynjrut
ij qf ufwynif, uzjx st htwwíf ujqnlwt jq ijofqqtx js fvzjq qzlfw, vzj jwf
ijxutgqfit. St kzjwts yfs afsfx szjxywfx twfhntsjx vzj st kzjxjs tíifx ijq
hnjqt; vzj, js szjxywt kfatw, qzjlt atqanó jq anjsyt, ywfsvznqt jq rfw,
htsaniásitstx f vzj ytwsáxjrtx fqjlwjx f uwtxjlznw szjxywt htrjsefit anfoj.

»Anjsit jxyt, ijxfyfrtx f qtx rtwtx, d zst f zst qtx uzxnrtx js ynjwwf, ij
qt vzj jqqtx xj vzjifwts firnwfitx; ujwt, qqjlfsit f ijxjrgfwhfw fq ufiwj
ij Etwfnif, vzj df jxyfgf js ytit xz fhzjwit, inot: ''¿Utw vzé ujsxánx,
hwnxynfstx, vzj jxyf rfqf mjrgwf mzjqlf ij vzj rj ijnx qngjwyfi? ¿Ujsxánx
vzj jx utw unjifi vzj ij rí ynjsj? St, utw hnjwyt, xnst vzj qt mfhj utw jq
jxytwgt vzj qj ifwá rn uwjxjshnf hzfsit vznjwf utsjw js jojhzhnós xzx rfqtx
ijxjtx; sn ujsxénx vzj qf mf rtanit f rzifw wjqnlnós jsyjsijw jqqf vzj qf
azjxywf f qf szjxywf xj fajsyfof, xnst jq xfgjw vzj js azjxywf ynjwwf xj
zxf qf ijxmtsjxynifi ráx qngwjrjsyj vzj js qf szjxywf''. D, atqanésitxj f
Etwfnif, yjsnésitqj dt d tywt hwnxynfst ij jsywfrgtx gwfetx fxnit, utwvzj
fqlús ijxfynst st mnhnjxj, qj inot: ''¡Tm nskfrj rtef d rfq fhtsxjofif
rzhmfhmf! ¿Fiósij afx, hnjlf d ijxfynsfif, js utijw ijxytx ujwwtx,
sfyzwfqjx jsjrnltx szjxywtx? ¡Rfqinyf xjf qf mtwf js vzj dt yj jsljsiwé, d
rfqinytx xjfs qtx wjlfqtx d ijqjnyjx js vzj yj mj hwnfit!'' Ujwt, anjsit dt
vzj qqjafgf yéwrnst ij st fhfgfw yfs uwjxyt, in uwnjxf f utsjqqj js ynjwwf,
d ijxij fqqí, f athjx, uwtxnlznó js xzx rfqinhntsjx d qfrjsytx, wtlfsit f
Rfmtrf wtlfxj f Fqá vzj stx ijxywzdjxj, htskzsinjxj d fhfgfxj; d hzfsit,
utw mfgjwstx mjhmt f qf ajqf, st utinrtx tíw xzx ufqfgwfx, anrtx xzx tgwfx,
vzj jwfs fwwfshfwxj qfx gfwgfx, rjxfwxj qtx hfgjqqtx d fwwfxywfwxj utw jq
xzjqt; rfx zsf aje jxktweó qf ate ij yfq rfsjwf vzj utinrtx jsyjsijw vzj
ijhíf: ''¡Azjqaj, frfif mnof, azjqaj f ynjwwf, vzj ytit yj qt ujwitst;
jsywjlf f jxtx mtrgwjx jxj insjwt, vzj df jx xzdt, d azjqaj f htsxtqfw f
jxyj ywnxyj ufiwj yzdt, vzj js jxyf ijxnjwyf fwjsf ijofwá qf anif, xn yú qj
ijofx!'' Ytit qt hzfq jxhzhmfgf Etwfnif, d ytit qt xjsyíf d qqtwfgf, d st
xzut ijhnwqj sn wjxutsijqqj ufqfgwf, xnst: ''Uqjlf f Fqá, ufiwj rít, vzj
Qjqf Rfwnés, vzj mf xnit qf hfzxf ij vzj dt xjf hwnxynfsf, jqqf yj htsxzjqj
js yz ywnxyjef. Fqá xfgj gnjs vzj st uzij mfhjw tywf htxf ij qf vzj mj
mjhmt, d vzj jxytx hwnxynfstx st ijgjs sfif f rn atqzsyfi, uzjx, fzsvzj
vznxnjwf st ajsnw hts jqqtx d vzjifwrj js rn hfxf, rj kzjwf nrutxngqj,
xjlús qf uwnjxf vzj rj ifgf rn fqrf f utsjw utw tgwf éxyf vzj f rí rj
ufwjhj yfs gzjsf htrt yú, ufiwj frfit, qf ozelfx utw rfqf''. Jxyt inot, f
ynjrut vzj sn xz ufiwj qf tíf, sn stxtywtx df qj ajífrtx; d fxí, htsxtqfsit
dt f Etwfnif, fyjsinrtx ytitx f szjxywt anfoj, jq hzfq stx qj kfhnqnyfgf jq
uwtuwnt anjsyt, ij yfq rfsjwf vzj gnjs yzanrtx utw hnjwyt ij ajwstx tywt
iíf fq frfsjhjw js qfx wngjwfx ij Jxufñf.

»Rfx, htrt uthfx ajhjx, t szshf, anjsj jq gnjs uzwt d xjshnqqt, xns xjw
fhtrufñfit t xjlznit ij fqlús rfq vzj qj yzwgj t xtgwjxfqyj, vznxt szjxywf
ajsyzwf, t vzneá qfx rfqinhntsjx vzj jq rtwt f xz mnof mfgíf jhmfit, vzj
xnjruwj xj mfs ij yjrjw ij hzfqvznjw ufiwj vzj xjfs; vznxt, inlt, vzj
jxyfsit df jsltqkfitx d xnjsit df hfxn ufxfifx ywjx mtwfx ij qf sthmj,
djsit hts qf ajqf yjsinif ij fqyt gfof, kwjsnqqfitx qtx wjrtx, utwvzj jq
uwóxujwt anjsyt stx vznyfgf ijq ywfgfot ij mfgjwqtx rjsjxyjw, hts qf qze ij
qf qzsf, vzj hqfwfrjsyj wjxuqfsijhíf, anrtx hjwhf ij stxtywtx zs gfojq
wjitsit, vzj, hts ytifx qfx ajqfx yjsinifx, qqjafsit zs utht f twef jq
ynrós, ijqfsyj ij stxtywtx fywfajxfgf; d jxyt yfs hjwhf, vzj stx kzj
ktwetxt frfnsfw utw st jrgjxynwqj, d jqqtx, fxnrjxrt, mnhnjwts kzjwef ij
ynrós ufwf ifwstx qzlfw vzj ufxáxjrtx.

»Mfgífsxj uzjxyt f gtwit ijq gfojq f uwjlzsyfwstx vznés éwfrtx, d fiósij
sfajlágfrtx, d ij iósij ajsífrtx; ujwt, utw uwjlzsyfwstx jxyt js qjslzf
kwfshjxf, inot szjxywt wjsjlfit: ''Snslzst wjxutsif; utwvzj éxytx, xns
izif, xts htxfwntx kwfshjxjx, vzj mfhjs f ytif wtuf''. Utw jxyj
fiajwynrnjsyt, snslzst wjxutsinó ufqfgwf; d, mfgnjsit ufxfit zs utht
ijqfsyj, vzj df jq gfojq vzjifgf xtyfajsyt, ij nruwtanxt xtqyfwts itx
unjefx ij fwynqqjwíf, d, f qt vzj ufwjhíf, frgfx ajsífs hts hfijsfx, utwvzj
hts zsf htwyfwts szjxywt áwgtq utw rjint, d injwts hts éq d hts qf ajqf js
qf rfw; d fq rtrjsyt, inxufwfsit tywf unjef, anst f ifw qf gfqf js rnyfi ij
szjxywf gfwhf, ij rtit vzj qf fgwnó ytif, xns mfhjw tywt rfq fqlzst; ujwt,
htrt stxtywtx stx anrtx nw f ktsit, htrjsefrtx ytitx f lwfsijx athjx f
ujinw xthtwwt d f wtlfw f qtx ijq gfojq vzj stx fhtlnjxjs, utwvzj stx
fsjlágfrtx. Frfnsfwts jsytshjx, d, jhmfsit jq jxvznkj t gfwhf f qf rfw,
jsywfwts js éq mfxyf ithj kwfshjxjx gnjs fwrfitx, hts xzx fwhfgzhjx d
hzjwifx jshjsinifx, d fxí qqjlfwts ozsyt fq szjxywt; d, anjsit hzás uthtx
éwfrtx d hórt jq gfojq xj mzsiíf, stx wjhtlnjwts, inhnjsit vzj, utw mfgjw
zxfit ij qf ijxhtwyjxíf ij st wjxutsijqqjx, stx mfgíf xzhjinit fvzjqqt.
Szjxywt wjsjlfit ytró jq htkwj ij qfx wnvzjefx ij Etwfnif, d int hts éq js
qf rfw, xns vzj snslzst jhmfxj ij ajw js qt vzj mfhíf. Js wjxtqzhnós, ytitx
ufxfrtx hts qtx kwfshjxjx, qtx hzfqjx, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj nsktwrfit ij ytit
fvzjqqt vzj ij stxtywtx xfgjw vznxnjwts, htrt xn kzjwfs szjxywtx hfunyfqjx
jsjrnltx, stx ijxutofwts ij ytit hzfsyt yjsífrtx, d f Etwfnif qj vznyfwts
mfxyf qtx hfwhfojx vzj ywfíf js qtx unjx. Ujwt st rj ifgf f rí yfsyf
ujxfizrgwj qf vzj f Etwfnif ifgfs, htrt rj qf ifgf jq yjrtw vzj yjsíf ij
vzj mfgífs ij ufxfw ijq vznyfw ij qfx wnvzíxnrfx d uwjhntxíxnrfx otdfx fq
vznyfw ij qf otdf vzj ráx afqíf d jqqf ráx jxynrfgf. Ujwt qtx ijxjtx ij
fvzjqqf ljsyj st xj jxynjsijs f ráx vzj fq insjwt, d ijxyt ofráx xj ajj
mfwyf xz htinhnf; qt hzfq jsytshjx qqjló f yfsyt, vzj fzs mfxyf qtx
ajxynitx ij hfzynatx stx vznyfwfs xn ij fqlús uwtajhmt qjx kzjwfs. D mzgt
ufwjhjw jsywj jqqtx ij vzj f ytitx stx fwwtofxjs f qf rfw jsazjqytx js zsf
ajqf, utwvzj yjsífs nsyjshnós ij ywfyfw js fqlzstx uzjwytx ij Jxufñf hts
strgwj ij vzj jwfs gwjytsjx, d xn stx qqjafgfs anatx, xjwífs hfxynlfitx,
xnjsit ijxhzgnjwyt xz mzwyt. Rfx jq hfunyás, vzj jwf jq vzj mfgíf ijxutofit
f rn vzjwnif Etwfnif, inot vzj éq xj htsyjsyfgf hts qf uwjxf vzj yjsíf, d
vzj st vzjwíf ythfw js snslús uzjwyt ij Jxufñf, xnst ufxfw jq jxywjhmt ij
Lngwfqyfw ij sthmj, t htrt uzinjxj, d nwxj f qf Wthmjqf, ij itsij mfgíf
xfqnit; d fxí, ytrfwts utw fhzjwit ij ifwstx jq jxvznkj ij xz sfaít, d ytit
qt sjhjxfwnt ufwf qf htwyf sfajlfhnós vzj stx vzjifgf, htrt qt mnhnjwts
tywf iíf, df f anxyf ij ynjwwf ij Jxufñf, hts qf hzfq anxyf, ytifx szjxywfx
ujxfizrgwjx d utgwjefx xj stx tqanifwts ij ytit uzsyt, htrt xn st mzgnjwfs
ufxfit utw stxtywtx: yfsyt jx jq lzxyt ij fqhfsefw qf qngjwyfi ujwinif.

»Hjwhf ij rjintiíf utiwíf xjw hzfsit stx jhmfwts js qf gfwhf, iásitstx itx
gfwwnqjx ij flzf d fqlús gnehthmt; d jq hfunyás, rtanit st xé ij vzé
rnxjwnhtwinf, fq jrgfwhfwxj qf mjwrtxíxnrf Etwfnif, qj int mfxyf hzfwjsyf
jxhzitx ij twt, d st htsxnsynó vzj qj vznyfxjs xzx xtqifitx jxytx rjxrtx
ajxynitx vzj fmtwf ynjsj uzjxytx. Jsywfrtx js jq gfojq; iírtxqjx qfx
lwfhnfx utw jq gnjs vzj stx mfhífs, rtxywásitstx ráx flwfijhnitx vzj
vzjotxtx; jqqtx xj mnhnjwts f qt qfwlt, xnlznjsit qf ijwwtyf ijq jxywjhmt;
stxtywtx, xns rnwfw f tywt stwyj vzj f qf ynjwwf vzj xj stx rtxywfgf
ijqfsyj, stx inrtx yfsyf uwnjxf f gtlfw vzj fq utsjw ijq xtq jxyágfrtx yfs
hjwhf vzj gnjs uzinéwfrtx, f szjxywt ufwjhjw, qqjlfw fsyjx vzj kzjwf rzd
sthmj; ujwt, utw st ufwjhjw js fvzjqqf sthmj qf qzsf d jq hnjqt rtxywfwxj
jxhzwt, d utw nlstwfw jq ufwfoj js vzj jxyágfrtx, st stx ufwjhnó htxf
xjlzwf jrgjxynw js ynjwwf, htrt f rzhmtx ij stxtywtx qjx ufwjhíf, inhnjsit
vzj inéxjrtx js jqqf, fzsvzj kzjxj js zsfx ujñfx d qjotx ij utgqfit, utwvzj
fxí fxjlzwfwífrtx jq yjrtw vzj ij wfeós xj ijgíf yjsjw vzj utw fqqí
fsizanjxjs gfojqjx ij htxfwntx ij Yjyzás, qtx hzfqjx fsthmjhjs js Gjwgjwíf
d frfsjhjs js qfx htxyfx ij Jxufñf, d mfhjs ij twinsfwnt uwjxf, d xj
azjqajs f itwrnw f xzx hfxfx. Ujwt, ij qtx htsywfwntx ufwjhjwjx, jq vzj xj
ytró kzj vzj stx qqjláxjrtx utht f utht, d vzj xn jq xtxnjlt ijq rfw qt
htshjinjxj, ijxjrgfwháxjrtx itsij uzinéxjrtx.

»Míetxj fxí, d utht fsyjx ij qf rjinf sthmj xjwíf hzfsit qqjlfrtx fq unj ij
zsf inxktwríxnrf d fqyf rtsyfñf, st yfs ozsyt fq rfw vzj st htshjinjxj zs
utht ij jxufhnt ufwf utijw ijxjrgfwhfw hórtifrjsyj. Jrgjxynrtx js qf fwjsf,
xfqnrtx f ynjwwf, gjxfrtx jq xzjqt, d, hts qálwnrfx ij rzd fqjlwíxnrt
htsyjsyt, inrtx ytitx lwfhnfx f Intx, Xjñtw Szjxywt, utw jq gnjs yfs
nshtrufwfgqj vzj stx mfgíf mjhmt. Xfhfrtx ij qf gfwhf qtx gfxynrjsytx vzj
yjsíf, ynwártxqf js ynjwwf, d xzgírtstx zs lwfsiíxnrt ywjhmt js qf rtsyfñf,
utwvzj fús fqqí jxyágfrtx, d fús st utiífrtx fxjlzwfw jq ujhmt, sn
fhfgágfrtx ij hwjjw vzj jwf ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx qf vzj df stx xtxyjsíf.
Frfsjhnó ráx yfwij, f rn ufwjhjw, ij qt vzj vznxnéwfrtx. Fhfgfrtx ij
xzgnw ytif qf rtsyfñf, utw ajw xn ijxij fqqí fqlús utgqfit xj ijxhzgwíf, t
fqlzsfx hfgfñfx ij ufxytwjx; ujwt, fzsvzj ráx yjsinrtx qf anxyf, sn
utgqfit, sn ujwxtsf, sn xjsif, sn hfrnst ijxhzgwnrtx. Hts ytit jxyt,
ijyjwrnsfrtx ij jsywfwstx qf ynjwwf fijsywt, uzjx st utiwíf xjw rjstx xnst
vzj uwjxyt ijxhzgwnéxjrtx vznjs stx injxj stynhnf ijqqf. Ujwt qt vzj f rí
ráx rj kfynlfgf jwf jq ajw nw f unj f Etwfnif utw fvzjqqfx fxujwjefx, vzj,
uzjxyt vzj fqlzsf aje qf uzxj xtgwj rnx mtrgwtx, ráx qj hfsxfgf f jqqf rn
hfsxfshnt vzj qf wjutxfgf xz wjutxt; d fxí, szshf ráx vznxt vzj dt fvzjq
ywfgfot ytrfxj; d, hts rzhmf ufhnjshnf d rzjxywfx ij fqjlwíf, qqjaásitqf dt
xnjruwj ij qf rfst, utht rjstx ij zs hzfwyt ij qjlzf ijgífrtx ij mfgjw
fsifit, hzfsit qqjló f szjxywtx tíitx jq xts ij zsf ujvzjñf jxvznqf, xjñfq
hqfwf vzj utw fqqí hjwhf mfgíf lfsfit; d, rnwfsit ytitx hts fyjshnós xn
fqlzst xj ufwjhíf, anrtx fq unj ij zs fqhtwstvzj zs ufxytw rtet, vzj hts
lwfsij wjutxt d ijxhznit jxyfgf qfgwfsit zs ufqt hts zs hzhmnqqt. Inrtx
athjx, d éq, fqefsit qf hfgjef, xj uzxt qnljwfrjsyj js unj, d, f qt vzj
ijxuzéx xzunrtx, qtx uwnrjwtx vzj f qf anxyf xj qj tkwjhnjwts kzjwts jq
wjsjlfit d Etwfnif, d, htrt éq qtx ant js mágnyt ij rtwtx, ujsxó vzj ytitx
qtx ij qf Gjwgjwíf jxyfgfs xtgwj éq; d, rjynésitxj hts jxywfñf qnljwjef utw
jq gtxvzj fijqfsyj, htrjseó f ifw qtx rfdtwjx lwnytx ijq rzsit inhnjsit:
''¡Rtwtx, rtwtx mfd js qf ynjwwf! ¡Rtwtx, rtwtx! ¡Fwrf, fwrf!''

»Hts jxyfx athjx vzjifrtx ytitx htskzxtx, d st xfgífrtx vzé mfhjwstx; ujwt,
htsxnijwfsit vzj qfx athjx ijq ufxytw mfgífs ij fqgtwtyfw qf ynjwwf, d vzj
qf hfgfqqjwíf ij qf htxyf mfgíf ij ajsnw qzjlt f ajw qt vzj jwf, fhtwifrtx
vzj jq wjsjlfit xj ijxszifxj qfx wtufx ijq yzwht d xj anxynjxj zs
lnqjhzjqht t hfxfhf ij hfzynat vzj zst ij stxtywtx qj int qzjlt, fzsvzj xj
vzjió js hfrnxf; d fxí, jshtrjsiásitstx f Intx, kznrtx utw jq rnxrt hfrnst
vzj anrtx vzj jq ufxytw qqjafgf, jxujwfsit xnjruwj hzásit mfgíf ij ifw
xtgwj stxtywtx qf hfgfqqjwíf ij qf htxyf. D st stx jslfñó szjxywt
ujsxfrnjsyt, utwvzj, fús st mfgwífs ufxfit itx mtwfx hzfsit, mfgnjsit df
xfqnit ij fvzjqqfx rfqjefx f zs qqfst, ijxhzgwnrtx mfxyf hnshzjsyf
hfgfqqjwtx, vzj hts lwfs qnljwjef, htwwnjsit f rjinf wnjsif, f stxtywtx xj
ajsífs, d fxí htrt qtx anrtx, stx jxyzanrtx vzjitx flzfwiásitqtx; ujwt,
htrt jqqtx qqjlfwts d anjwts, js qzlfw ij qtx rtwtx vzj gzxhfgfs, yfsyt
utgwj hwnxynfst, vzjifwts htskzxtx, d zst ijqqtx stx uwjlzsyó xn éwfrtx
stxtywtx fhfxt qf thfxnós utw vzj zs ufxytw mfgíf fujqqnifit fq fwrf.
''Xí'', inoj dt; d, vzjwnjsit htrjsefw f ijhnwqj rn xzhjxt, d ij iósij
ajsífrtx d vznés éwfrtx, zst ij qtx hwnxynfstx vzj hts stxtywtx ajsífs
htsthnó fq onsjyj vzj stx mfgíf mjhmt qf uwjlzsyf, d inot, xns ijofwrj f rí
ijhnw ráx ufqfgwf: ''¡Lwfhnfx xjfs ififx f Intx, xjñtwjx, vzj f yfs gzjsf
ufwyj stx mf htsizhnit!, utwvzj, xn dt st rj jslfñt, qf ynjwwf vzj unxfrtx
jx qf ij Aéqje Ráqflf, xn df qtx fñtx ij rn hfzynajwnt st rj mfs vznyfit ij
qf rjrtwnf jq fhtwifwrj vzj atx, xjñtw, vzj stx uwjlzsyánx vznés xtrtx,
xtnx Ujiwt ij Gzxyfrfsyj, yít rít''. Fujsfx mzgt inhmt jxyt jq hwnxynfst
hfzynat, hzfsit jq onsjyj xj fwwtoó ijq hfgfqqt d anst f fgwfefw fq rtet,
inhnésitqj: ''Xtgwnst ij rn fqrf d ij rn anif, df yj htsteht, d df yj mj
qqtwfit utw rzjwyt dt, d rn mjwrfsf, yz rfiwj, d ytitx qtx yzdtx, vzj fús
anajs; d Intx mf xnit xjwanit ij ifwqjx anif ufwf vzj lthjs jq uqfhjw ij
ajwyj: df xfgífrtx vzj jxyfgfx js Fwljq, d utw qfx xjñfqjx d rzjxywfx ij
yzx ajxynitx, d qf ij ytitx qtx ijxyf htrufñíf, htruwjmjsit vzj mfgénx
yjsnit rnqflwtxf qngjwyfi''. ''Fxí jx -wjxutsinó jq rtet-, d ynjrut stx
vzjifwá ufwf htsyáwtxqt ytit''.

»Qzjlt vzj qtx onsjyjx jsyjsinjwts vzj éwfrtx hwnxynfstx hfzynatx, xj
fujfwts ij xzx hfgfqqtx, d hfif zst stx htsanifgf hts jq xzdt ufwf
qqjafwstx f qf hnzifi ij Aéqje Ráqflf, vzj qjlzf d rjinf ij fqqí jxyfgf.
Fqlzstx ijqqtx atqanjwts f qqjafw qf gfwhf f qf hnzifi, inhnésitqjx iósij
qf mfgífrtx ijofit; tywtx stx xzgnjwts f qfx fshfx, d Etwfnif kzj js qfx
ijq hfgfqqt ijq yít ijq hwnxynfst. Xfqnóstx f wjhjgnw ytit jq uzjgqt, vzj
df ij fqlzst vzj xj mfgíf fijqfsyfit xfgífs qf szjaf ij szjxywf ajsnif. St
xj firnwfgfs ij ajw hfzynatx qngwjx, sn rtwtx hfzynatx, utwvzj ytif qf
ljsyj ij fvzjqqf htxyf jxyá mjhmf f ajw f qtx zstx d f qtx tywtx; ujwt
firnwágfsxj ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij Etwfnif, qf hzfq js fvzjq nsxyfsyj d xfeós
jxyfgf js xz uzsyt, fsxí hts jq hfsxfshnt ijq hfrnst htrt hts qf fqjlwíf ij
ajwxj df js ynjwwf ij hwnxynfstx, xns xtgwjxfqyt ij ujwijwxj; d jxyt qj
mfgíf xfhfit fq wtxywt yfqjx htqtwjx vzj, xn st jx vzj qf fknhnós jsytshjx
rj jslfñfgf, txfwé ijhnw vzj ráx mjwrtxf hwnfyzwf st mfgíf js jq rzsit; f
qt rjstx, vzj dt qf mzgnjxj anxyt.

»Kznrtx ijwjhmtx f qf nlqjxnf, f ifw lwfhnfx f Intx utw qf rjwhji wjhjgnif;
d, fxí htrt js jqqf jsywó Etwfnif, inot vzj fqqí mfgíf wtxywtx vzj xj
ufwjhífs f qtx ij Qjqf Rfwnés. Inoírtxqj vzj jwfs nrálnsjx xzdfx, d htrt
rjotw xj uzit qj int jq wjsjlfit f jsyjsijw qt vzj xnlsnknhfgfs, ufwf vzj
jqqf qfx fitwfxj htrt xn ajwifijwfrjsyj kzjwfs hfif zsf ijqqfx qf rnxrf
Qjqf Rfwnés vzj qf mfgíf mfgqfit. Jqqf, vzj ynjsj gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt d zs
sfyzwfq káhnq d hqfwt, jsyjsinó qzjlt hzfsyt fhjwhf ij qfx nráljsjx xj qj
inot. Ijxij fqqí stx qqjafwts d wjufwynjwts f ytitx js inkjwjsyjx hfxfx ijq
uzjgqt; ujwt fq wjsjlfit, Etwfnif d f rí stx qqjaó jq hwnxynfst vzj anst
hts stxtywtx, d js hfxf ij xzx ufiwjx, vzj rjinfsfrjsyj jwfs fhtrtifitx ij
qtx gnjsjx ij ktwyzsf, d stx wjlfqfwts hts yfsyt frtw htrt f xz rnxrt mnot.

»Xjnx iífx jxyzanrtx js Aéqje, fq hfgt ij qtx hzfqjx jq wjsjlfit, mjhmf xz
nsktwrfhnós ij hzfsyt qj htsajsíf, xj kzj f qf hnzifi ij Lwfsfif, f
wjizhnwxj utw rjint ij qf Xfsyf Nsvznxnhnós fq lwjrnt xfsyíxnrt ij qf
Nlqjxnf; qtx ijráx hwnxynfstx qngjwyfitx xj kzjwts hfif zst itsij rjotw qj
ufwjhnó; xtqtx vzjifrtx Etwfnif d dt, hts xtqtx qtx jxhzitx vzj qf htwyjxíf
ijq kwfshéx qj int f Etwfnif, ij qtx hzfqjx htruwé jxyj fsnrfq js vzj jqqf
anjsj; d, xnwanésitqf dt mfxyf fltwf ij ufiwj d jxhzijwt, d st ij jxutxt,
afrtx hts nsyjshnós ij ajw xn rn ufiwj jx anat, t xn fqlzst ij rnx mjwrfstx
mf yjsnit ráx uwóxujwf ajsyzwf vzj qf ríf, uzjxyt vzj, utw mfgjwrj mjhmt jq
hnjqt htrufñjwt ij Etwfnif, rj ufwjhj vzj snslzsf tywf xzjwyj rj uzinjwf
ajsnw, utw gzjsf vzj kzjwf, vzj ráx qf jxynrfwf. Qf ufhnjshnf hts vzj
Etwfnif qqjaf qfx nshtrtinifijx vzj qf utgwjef ywfj htsxnlt, d jq ijxjt vzj
rzjxywf yjsjw ij ajwxj df hwnxynfsf jx yfsyt d yfq, vzj rj firnwf d rj
rzjaj f xjwanwqf ytit jq ynjrut ij rn anif, uzjxyt vzj jq lzxyt vzj yjslt
ij ajwrj xzdt d ij vzj jqqf xjf ríf rj qt yzwgf d ijxmfhj st xfgjw xn
mfqqfwé js rn ynjwwf fqlús wnshós itsij wjhtljqqf, d xn mfgwás mjhmt jq
ynjrut d qf rzjwyj yfq rzifsef js qf mfhnjsif d anif ij rn ufiwj d mjwrfstx
vzj fujsfx mfqqj vznjs rj htstehf, xn jqqtx kfqyfs.» St yjslt ráx, xjñtwjx,
vzj ijhnwtx ij rn mnxytwnf; qf hzfq, xn jx flwfifgqj d ujwjlwnsf, oúelzjsqt
azjxywtx gzjstx jsyjsinrnjsytx; vzj ij rí xé ijhnw vzj vznxnjwf mfgéwtxqf
htsyfit ráx gwjajrjsyj, uzjxyt vzj jq yjrtw ij jskfifwtx ráx ij hzfywt
hnwhzxyfshnfx rj mf vznyfit ij qf qjslzf.





Hfuíyzqt CQNN. Vzj ywfyf ij qt vzj ráx xzhjinó js qf ajsyf d ij tywfx
rzhmfx htxfx inlsfx ij xfgjwxj


Hfqqó, js inhnjsit jxyt, jq hfzynat, f vznjs its Kjwsfsit inot:

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw hfunyás, jq rtit hts vzj mfgénx htsyfit jxyj jxywfñt
xzhjxt mf xnit yfq, vzj nlzfqf f qf stajifi d jxywfñjef ijq rjxrt hfxt.
Ytit jx ujwjlwnst d wfwt, d qqjst ij fhhnijsyjx vzj rfwfanqqfs d xzxujsijs
f vznjs qtx tdj; d jx ij yfq rfsjwf jq lzxyt vzj mjrtx wjhjgnit js
jxhzhmfqqj, vzj, fzsvzj stx mfqqfwf jq iíf ij rfñfsf jsywjyjsnitx js jq
rjxrt hzjsyt, mtqláwfrtx vzj ij szjat xj htrjsefwf.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, its Kjwsfsit d ytitx qtx ijráx xj qj tkwjhnjwts, hts
ytit qt f jqqtx utxngqj ufwf xjwanwqj, hts ufqfgwfx d wfetsjx yfs frtwtxfx
d yfs ajwifijwfx vzj jq hfunyás xj yzat utw gnjs xfynxkjhmt ij xzx
atqzsyfijx. Jxujhnfqrjsyj, qj tkwjhnó its Kjwsfsit vzj xn vzjwíf atqajwxj
hts éq, vzj éq mfwíf vzj jq rfwvzéx, xz mjwrfst, kzjxj ufiwnst ijq gfzynxrt
ij Etwfnif, d vzj éq, utw xz ufwyj, qj fhtrtifwíf ij rfsjwf vzj uzinjxj
jsywfw js xz ynjwwf hts jq fzytwnifi d hórtit vzj f xz ujwxtsf xj ijgíf.
Ytit qt flwfijhnó htwyjxíxnrfrjsyj jq hfzynat, ujwt st vznxt fhjyfw snslzst
ij xzx qngjwfqjx tkwjhnrnjsytx.

Js jxyt, qqjlfgf df qf sthmj, d, fq hjwwfw ijqqf, qqjló f qf ajsyf zs
hthmj, hts fqlzstx mtrgwjx ij f hfgfqqt. Uninjwts utxfif; f vznjs qf
ajsyjwf wjxutsinó vzj st mfgíf js ytif qf ajsyf zs ufqrt ijxthzufit.

-Uzjx, fzsvzj jxt xjf -inot zst ij qtx ij f hfgfqqt vzj mfgífs jsywfit-, st
mf ij kfqyfw ufwf jq xjñtw tnitw vzj fvzí anjsj.

F jxyj strgwj xj yzwgó qf lüéxujif, d inot:

-Xjñtw, qt vzj js jqqt mfd jx vzj st yjslt hfrfx: xn jx vzj xz rjwhji ijq
xjñtw tnitw qf ywfj, vzj xí ijgj ij ywfjw, jsywj js gzjs mtwf, vzj dt d rn
rfwnit stx xfqiwjrtx ij szjxywt futxjsyt utw fhtrtifw f xz rjwhji.

-Xjf js gzjs mtwf -inot jq jxhzijwt.

Ujwt, f jxyj ynjrut, df mfgíf xfqnit ijq hthmj zs mtrgwj, vzj js jq ywfoj
rtxywó qzjlt jq tknhnt d hfwlt vzj yjsíf, utwvzj qf wtuf qzjslf, hts qfx
rfslfx fwwthfifx, vzj ajxyíf, rtxywfwts xjw tnitw, htrt xz hwnfit mfgíf
inhmt. Ywfíf ij qf rfst f zsf itshjqqf, fq ufwjhjw ij mfxyf inje d xjnx
fñtx, ajxynif ij hfrnst, yfs gnefwwf, yfs mjwrtxf d yfs lfqqfwif vzj f
ytitx uzxt js firnwfhnós xz anxyf; ij xzjwyj vzj, f st mfgjw anxyt f
Itwtyjf d f Qzxhnsif d Etwfnif, vzj js qf ajsyf jxyfgfs, hwjdjwfs vzj tywf
yfq mjwrtxzwf htrt qf ijxyf itshjqqf inkíhnqrjsyj uzinjwf mfqqfwxj. Mfqqóxj
its Vznotyj fq jsywfw ijq tnitw d ij qf itshjqqf, d, fxí htrt qj ant, inot:

-Xjlzwfrjsyj uzjij azjxywf rjwhji jsywfw d jxufhnfwxj js jxyj hfxynqqt,
vzj, fzsvzj jx jxywjhmt d rfq fhtrtifit, st mfd jxywjhmjef sn nshtrtinifi
js jq rzsit vzj st ié qzlfw f qfx fwrfx d f qfx qjywfx, d ráx xn qfx fwrfx
d qjywfx ywfjs utw lzíf d fifqni f qf kjwrtxzwf, htrt qf ywfjs qfx qjywfx
ij azjxywf rjwhji js jxyf kjwrtxf itshjqqf, f vznjs ijgjs st xóqt fgwnwxj d
rfsnkjxyfwxj qtx hfxynqqtx, xnst fufwyfwxj qtx wnxhtx, d ijaninwxj d
fgfofwxj qfx rtsyfñfx, ufwf ifqqj fhtlnif. Jsywj azjxywf rjwhji, inlt, js
jxyj ufwfíxt, vzj fvzí mfqqfwá jxywjqqfx d xtqjx vzj fhtrufñjs jq hnjqt vzj
azjxywf rjwhji ywfj htsxnlt; fvzí mfqqfwá qfx fwrfx js xz uzsyt d qf
mjwrtxzwf js xz jxywjrt.

Firnwfit vzjió jq tnitw ijq wfetsfrnjsyt ij its Vznotyj, f vznjs xj uzxt f
rnwfw rzd ij uwtuóxnyt, d st rjstx qj firnwfgf xz yfqqj vzj xzx ufqfgwfx;
d, xns mfqqfw snslzsfx hts vzj wjxutsijqqj, xj ytwsó f firnwfw ij szjat
hzfsit ant ijqfsyj ij xí f Qzxhnsif, Itwtyjf d f Etwfnif, vzj, f qfx szjafx
ij qtx szjatx lüéxujijx d f qfx vzj qf ajsyjwf qjx mfgíf ifit ij qf
mjwrtxzwf ij qf itshjqqf, mfgífs ajsnit f ajwqf d f wjhjgnwqf. Ujwt its
Kjwsfsit, Hfwijsnt d jq hzwf qj mnhnjwts ráx qqfstx d ráx htwyjxfstx
tkwjhnrnjsytx. Js jkjhyt, jq xjñtw tnitw jsywó htskzxt, fxí ij qt vzj ajíf
htrt ij qt vzj jxhzhmfgf, d qfx mjwrtxfx ij qf ajsyf injwts qf gnjsqqjlfif
f qf mjwrtxf itshjqqf.

Js wjxtqzhnós, gnjs jhmó ij ajw jq tnitw vzj jwf ljsyj uwnshnufq ytif qf
vzj fqqí jxyfgf; ujwt jq yfqqj, anxfoj d qf futxyzwf ij its Vznotyj qj
ijxfynsfgf; d, mfgnjsit ufxfit jsywj ytitx htwyjxjx tkwjhnrnjsytx d
yfsyjfit qf htrtinifi ij qf ajsyf, xj twijsó qt vzj fsyjx jxyfgf twijsfit:
vzj ytifx qfx rzojwjx xj jsywfxjs js jq hfrfwfshmós df wjkjwnit, d vzj qtx
mtrgwjx xj vzjifxjs kzjwf, htrt js xz lzfwif. D fxí, kzj htsyjsyt jq tnitw
vzj xz mnof, vzj jwf qf itshjqqf, xj kzjxj hts fvzjqqfx xjñtwfx, qt vzj
jqqf mnet ij rzd gzjsf lfsf. D hts ufwyj ij qf jxywjhmf hfrf ijq ajsyjwt, d
hts qf rnyfi ij qf vzj jq tnitw ywfíf, xj fhtrtifwts fvzjqqf sthmj rjotw ij
qt vzj ujsxfgfs.

Jq hfzynat, vzj, ijxij jq uzsyt vzj ant fq tnitw, qj int xfqytx jq htwfeós
d gfwwzsytx ij vzj fvzéq jwf xz mjwrfst, uwjlzsyó f zst ij qtx hwnfitx vzj
hts éq ajsífs vzj hórt xj qqfrfgf d xn xfgíf ij vzé ynjwwf jwf. Jq hwnfit
qj wjxutsinó vzj xj qqfrfgf jq qnhjshnfit Ozfs Uéwje ij Anjirf, d vzj mfgíf
tíit ijhnw vzj jwf ij zs qzlfw ij qfx rtsyfñfx ij Qjós. Hts jxyf wjqfhnós d
hts qt vzj éq mfgíf anxyt xj fhfgó ij htsknwrfw ij vzj fvzéq jwf xz
mjwrfst, vzj mfgíf xjlznit qfx qjywfx utw htsxjot ij xz ufiwj; d,
fqgtwtyfit d htsyjsyt, qqfrfsit fufwyj f its Kjwsfsit, f Hfwijsnt d fq
hzwf, qjx htsyó qt vzj ufxfgf, hjwynknhásitqjx vzj fvzjq tnitw jwf xz
mjwrfst. Mfgífqj inhmt yfrgnés jq hwnfit htrt ngf uwtajíit utw tnitw f qfx
Nsinfx, js qf Fzinjshnf ij Réonht. Xzut yfrgnés htrt fvzjqqf itshjqqf jwf
xz mnof, ij hzdt ufwyt mfgíf rzjwyt xz rfiwj, d vzj éq mfgíf vzjifit rzd
wnht hts jq ityj vzj hts qf mnof xj qj vzjió js hfxf. Uninóqjx htsxjot vzé
rtit yjsiwíf ufwf ijxhzgwnwxj, t ufwf htsthjw uwnrjwt xn, ijxuzéx ij
ijxhzgnjwyt, xz mjwrfst, utw ajwqj utgwj, xj fkwjsyfgf t qj wjhjgíf hts
gzjsfx jsywfñfx.

-Iéojxjrj f rí jq mfhjw jxf jcujwnjshnf -inot jq hzwf-; hzfsyt ráx, vzj st
mfd ujsxfw xnst vzj atx, xjñtw hfunyás, xjwénx rzd gnjs wjhjgnit; utwvzj jq
afqtw d uwzijshnf vzj js xz gzjs ufwjhjw ijxhzgwj azjxywt mjwrfst st if
nsinhntx ij xjw fwwtlfsyj sn ijxhtsthnit, sn vzj st mf ij xfgjw utsjw qtx
hfxtx ij qf ktwyzsf js xz uzsyt.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot jq hfunyás- dt vzjwwíf, st ij nruwtanxt, xnst utw
wtijtx, iáwrjqj f htsthjw.

-Df tx inlt -wjxutsinó jq hzwf- vzj dt qt ywfefwé ij rtit vzj ytitx
vzjijrtx xfynxkjhmtx.

Df, js jxyt, jxyfgf fijwjefif qf hjsf, d ytitx xj xjsyfwts f qf rjxf, jhjyt
jq hfzynat d qfx xjñtwfx, vzj hjsfwts ij utw xí js xz futxjsyt. Js qf rnyfi
ij qf hjsf inot jq hzwf:

-Ijq rjxrt strgwj ij azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw tnitw, yzaj dt zsf hfrfwfif js
Htxyfsynstuqf, itsij jxyzaj hfzynat fqlzstx fñtx; qf hzfq hfrfwfif jwf zst
ij qtx afqnjsyjx xtqifitx d hfunyfsjx vzj mfgíf js ytif qf nskfsyjwíf
jxufñtqf, ujwt yfsyt hzfsyt yjsíf ij jxktwefit d afqjwtxt qt yjsíf ij
ijxinhmfit.

-D ¿hórt xj qqfrfgf jxj hfunyás, xjñtw rít? -uwjlzsyó jq tnitw.

-Qqfrágfxj -wjxutsinó jq hzwf- Wzd Uéwje ij Anjirf, d jwf sfyzwfq ij zs
qzlfw ij qfx rtsyfñfx ij Qjós, jq hzfq rj htsyó zs hfxt vzj f xz ufiwj
hts xzx mjwrfstx qj mfgíf xzhjinit, vzj, f st htsyáwrjqt zs mtrgwj yfs
ajwifijwt htrt éq, qt yzanjwf utw htsxjof ij fvzjqqfx vzj qfx anjofx
hzjsyfs jq nsanjwst fq kzjlt. Utwvzj rj inot vzj xz ufiwj mfgíf inaninit xz
mfhnjsif jsywj ywjx mnotx vzj yjsíf, d qjx mfgíf ifit hnjwytx htsxjotx,
rjotwjx vzj qtx ij Hfyós. D xé dt ijhnw vzj jq vzj éq jxhtlnó ij ajsnw f qf
lzjwwf qj mfgíf xzhjinit yfs gnjs vzj js uthtx fñtx, utw xz afqtw d
jxkzjwet, xns tywt gwfet vzj jq ij xz rzhmf anwyzi, xzgnó f xjw hfunyás ij
nskfsyjwíf, d f ajwxj js hfrnst d uwjinhfrjsyt ij xjw uwjxyt rfjxywj ij
hfrut. Ujwt kzjqj qf ktwyzsf htsywfwnf, uzjx itsij qf uzinjwf jxujwfw d
yjsjw gzjsf, fqqí qf ujwinó, hts ujwijw qf qngjwyfi js qf kjqnhíxnrf
otwsfif itsij yfsytx qf htgwfwts, vzj kzj js qf gfyfqqf ij Qjufsyt. Dt qf
ujwií js qf Ltqjyf, d ijxuzéx, utw inkjwjsyjx xzhjxtx, stx mfqqfrtx
hfrfwfifx js Htxyfsynstuqf. Ijxij fqqí anst f Fwljq, itsij xé vzj qj
xzhjinó zst ij qtx ráx jxywfñtx hfxtx vzj js jq rzsit mfs xzhjinit.

Ij fvzí kzj uwtxnlznjsit jq hzwf, d, hts gwjajifi xzhnsyf, htsyó qt vzj hts
Etwfnif f xz mjwrfst mfgíf xzhjinit; f ytit qt hzfq jxyfgf yfs fyjsyt jq
tnitw, vzj snslzsf aje mfgíf xnit yfs tnitw htrt jsytshjx. Xóqt qqjló jq
hzwf fq uzsyt ij hzfsit qtx kwfshjxjx ijxutofwts f qtx hwnxynfstx vzj js qf
gfwhf ajsífs, d qf utgwjef d sjhjxnifi js vzj xz hfrfwfif d qf mjwrtxf rtwf
mfgífs vzjifit; ij qtx hzfqjx st mfgíf xfgnit js vzé mfgífs ufwfit, sn xn
mfgífs qqjlfit f Jxufñf, t qqjaáitqtx qtx kwfshjxjx f Kwfshnf.

Ytit qt vzj jq hzwf ijhíf jxyfgf jxhzhmfsit, fqlt ij fqqí ijxanfit, jq
hfunyás, d styfgf ytitx qtx rtanrnjsytx vzj xz mjwrfst mfhíf; jq hzfq,
anjsit vzj df jq hzwf mfgíf qqjlfit fq kns ij xz hzjsyt, ifsit zs lwfsij
xzxunwt d qqjsásitxjqj qtx totx ij flzf, inot:

-¡Tm, xjñtw, xn xzunéxjijx qfx szjafx vzj rj mfgénx htsyfit, d hórt rj
ythfs yfs js ufwyj vzj rj jx ktwetxt ifw rzjxywfx ijqqt hts jxyfx qálwnrfx
vzj, htsywf ytif rn inxhwjhnós d wjhfyt, rj xfqjs utw qtx totx! Jxj hfunyás
yfs afqjwtxt vzj ijhíx jx rn rfdtw mjwrfst, jq hzfq, htrt ráx kzjwyj d ij
ráx fqytx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj dt sn tywt mjwrfst rjstw rít, jxhtlnó jq mtswtxt
d inlst jojwhnhnt ij qf lzjwwf, vzj kzj zst ij qtx ywjx hfrnstx vzj szjxywt
ufiwj stx uwtuzxt, xjlús tx inot azjxywf hfrfwfif js qf htsxjof vzj, f
azjxywt ufwjhjw, qj tíxyjx. Dt xjlzí jq ij qfx qjywfx, js qfx hzfqjx Intx d
rn inqnljshnf rj mfs uzjxyt js jq lwfit vzj rj ajnx. Rn rjstw mjwrfst jxyá
js jq Unwú, yfs wnht vzj hts qt vzj mf jsanfit f rn ufiwj d f rí mf
xfynxkjhmt gnjs qf ufwyj vzj éq xj qqjaó, d fzs ifit f qfx rfstx ij rn
ufiwj hts vzj utijw mfwyfw xz qngjwfqnifi sfyzwfq; d dt, fsxnrjxrt, mj
utinit hts ráx ijhjshnf d fzytwnifi ywfyfwrj js rnx jxyzintx d qqjlfw fq
uzjxyt js vzj rj ajt. Anaj fús rn ufiwj, rzwnjsit hts jq ijxjt ij xfgjw ij
xz mnot rfdtw, d unij f Intx hts htsynszfx twfhntsjx st hnjwwj qf rzjwyj
xzx totx mfxyf vzj éq ajf hts anif f qtx ij xz mnot; ijq hzfq rj rfwfanqqt,
xnjsit yfs inxhwjyt, hórt js yfsytx ywfgfotx d fkqnhntsjx, t uwóxujwtx
xzhjxtx, xj mfdf ijxhznifit ij ifw stynhnf ij xí f xz ufiwj; vzj xn éq qt
xzunjwf, t fqlzst ij stxtywtx, st yzanjwf sjhjxnifi ij flzfwifw fq rnqflwt
ij qf hfñf ufwf fqhfsefw xz wjxhfyj. Ujwt ij qt vzj dt fltwf rj yjrt jx ij
ujsxfw xn fvzjqqtx kwfshjxjx qj mfgwás ifit qngjwyfi, t qj mfgwás rzjwyt
utw jshzgwnw xz mzwyt. Jxyt ytit xjwá vzj dt uwtxnlf rn anfoj, st hts fvzjq
htsyjsyt hts vzj qj htrjshé, xnst hts ytif rjqfshtqíf d ywnxyjef. ¡Tm gzjs
mjwrfst rít, d vznés xzunjwf fltwf iósij jxyfgfx; vzj dt yj kzjwf f gzxhfw
d f qngwfw ij yzx ywfgfotx, fzsvzj kzjwf f htxyf ij qtx rítx! ¡Tm, vznés
qqjafwf szjafx f szjxywt anjot ufiwj ij vzj yjsífx anif, fzsvzj jxyzanjwfx
js qfx rfertwwfx ráx jxhtsinifx ij Gjwgjwíf; vzj ij fqqí yj xfhfwfs xzx
wnvzjefx, qfx ij rn mjwrfst d qfx rífx! ¡Tm Etwfnif mjwrtxf d qngjwfq,
vznés uzinjwf uflfw jq gnjs vzj f zs mjwrfst mnhnxyj!; ¡vznés uzinjwf
mfqqfwxj fq wjsfhjw ij yz fqrf, d f qfx gtifx, vzj yfsyt lzxyt f ytitx stx
injwfs!

Jxyfx d tywfx xjrjofsyjx ufqfgwfx ijhíf jq tnitw, qqjst ij yfsyf htrufxnós
hts qfx szjafx vzj ij xz mjwrfst qj mfgífs ifit, vzj ytitx qtx vzj qj tífs
qj fhtrufñfgfs js ifw rzjxywfx ijq xjsynrnjsyt vzj yjsífs ij xz qáxynrf.

Anjsit, uzjx, jq hzwf vzj yfs gnjs mfgíf xfqnit hts xz nsyjshnós d hts qt
vzj ijxjfgf jq hfunyás, st vznxt yjsjwqtx f ytitx ráx ynjrut ywnxyjx, d
fxí, xj qjafsyó ij qf rjxf, d, jsywfsit itsij jxyfgf Etwfnif, qf ytró utw
qf rfst, d ywfx jqqf xj ansnjwts Qzxhnsif, Itwtyjf d qf mnof ijq tnitw.
Jxyfgf jxujwfsit jq hfunyás f ajw qt vzj jq hzwf vzjwíf mfhjw, vzj kzj vzj,
ytrásitqj f éq fxnrjxrt ij qf tywf rfst, hts jsywfrgtx f itx xj kzj itsij
jq tnitw d qtx ijráx hfgfqqjwtx jxyfgfs, d inot:

-Hjxjs, xjñtw tnitw, azjxywfx qálwnrfx, d hóqrjxj azjxywt ijxjt ij ytit jq
gnjs vzj fhjwyfwj f ijxjfwxj, uzjx yjsénx ijqfsyj f azjxywt gzjs mjwrfst d
f azjxywf gzjsf hzñfif. Éxyj vzj fvzí ajnx jx jq hfunyás Anjirf, d éxyf, qf
mjwrtxf rtwf vzj yfsyt gnjs qj mnet. Qtx kwfshjxjx vzj tx inoj qtx uzxnjwts
js qf jxywjhmjef vzj ajnx, ufwf vzj atx rtxywénx qf qngjwfqnifi ij azjxywt
gzjs ujhmt.

Fhzinó jq hfunyás f fgwfefw f xz mjwrfst, d éq qj uzxt frgfx rfstx js qtx
ujhmtx utw rnwfwqj fqlt ráx fufwyfit; rfx, hzfsit qj fhfgó ij htsthjw, qj
fgwfeó yfs jxywjhmfrjsyj, ijwwfrfsit yfs ynjwsfx qálwnrfx ij htsyjsyt,vzj
qtx ráx ij qtx vzj uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs qj mzgnjwts ij fhtrufñfw js jqqfx. Qfx
ufqfgwfx vzj jsywfrgtx mjwrfstx xj inojwts, qtx xjsynrnjsytx vzj rtxywfwts,
fujsfx hwjt vzj uzjijs ujsxfwxj, hzfsyt ráx jxhwngnwxj. Fqqí, js gwjajx
wfetsjx, xj injwts hzjsyf ij xzx xzhjxtx; fqqí rtxywfwts uzjxyf js xz uzsyt
qf gzjsf frnxyfi ij itx mjwrfstx; fqqí fgwfeó jq tnitw f Etwfnif; fqqí qf
tkwjhnó xz mfhnjsif; fqqí mnet vzj qf fgwfefxj xz mnof; fqqí qf hwnxynfsf
mjwrtxf d qf rtwf mjwrtxíxnrf wjstafwts qfx qálwnrfx ij ytitx.

Fqqí its Vznotyj jxyfgf fyjsyt, xns mfgqfw ufqfgwf, htsxnijwfsit jxytx yfs
jxywfñtx xzhjxtx, fywngzdésitqtx ytitx f vznrjwfx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf.
Fqqí htshjwyfwts vzj jq hfunyás d Etwfnif xj atqanjxjs hts xz mjwrfst f
Xjanqqf d fanxfxjs f xz ufiwj ij xz mfqqfelt d qngjwyfi, ufwf vzj, htrt
uzinjxj, ansnjxj f mfqqfwxj js qfx gtifx d gfzynxrt ij Etwfnif, utw st qj
xjw fq tnitw utxngqj ijofw jq hfrnst vzj qqjafgf, f hfzxf ij yjsjw szjafx
vzj ij fqqí f zs rjx ufwyíf qf kqtyf ij Xjanqqf f qf Szjaf Jxufñf, d
kzéwfqj ij lwfsij nshtrtinifi ujwijw jq anfoj.

Js wjxtqzhnós, ytitx vzjifwts htsyjsytx d fqjlwjx ijq gzjs xzhjxt ijq
hfzynat; d, htrt df qf sthmj ngf hfxn js qfx itx ufwyjx ij xz otwsfif,
fhtwifwts ij wjhtljwxj d wjutxfw qt vzj ij jqqf qjx vzjifgf. Its Vznotyj xj
tkwjhnó f mfhjw qf lzfwinf ijq hfxynqqt, utwvzj ij fqlús lnlfsyj t tywt rfq
fsifsyj ktqqós st kzjxjs fhtrjynitx, htinhntxtx ijq lwfs yjxtwt ij
mjwrtxzwf vzj js fvzjq hfxynqqt xj jshjwwfgf. Flwfijhnéwtsxjqt qtx vzj qj
htsthífs, d injwts fq tnitw hzjsyf ijq mzrtw jxywfñt ij its Vznotyj, ij vzj
st utht lzxyt wjhngnó.

Xóqt Xfshmt Ufsef xj ijxjxujwfgf hts qf yfwifsef ijq wjhtlnrnjsyt, d xóqt
éq xj fhtrtió rjotw vzj ytitx, jhmásitxj xtgwj qtx fufwjotx ij xz ozrjsyt,
vzj qj htxyfwts yfs hfwtx htrt fijqfsyj xj inwá.

Wjhtlnifx, uzjx, qfx ifrfx js xz jxyfshnf, d qtx ijráx fhtrtiáitxj htrt
rjstx rfq uzinjwts, its Vznotyj xj xfqnó kzjwf ij qf ajsyf f mfhjw qf
hjsynsjqf ijq hfxynqqt, htrt qt mfgíf uwtrjynit.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj kfqyfsit utht utw ajsnw jq fqgf, qqjló f qtx tíitx ij
qfx ifrfx zsf ate yfs jsytsfif d yfs gzjsf, vzj qjx tgqnló f vzj ytifx qj
uwjxyfxjs fyjsyt tíit, jxujhnfqrjsyj Itwtyjf, vzj ijxunjwyf jxyfgf, f hzdt
qfit itwríf itñf Hqfwf ij Anjirf, vzj fsxí xj qqfrfgf qf mnof ijq tnitw.
Sfinj utiíf nrflnsfw vznés jwf qf ujwxtsf vzj yfs gnjs hfsyfgf, d jwf zsf
ate xtqf, xns vzj qf fhtrufñfxj nsxywzrjsyt fqlzst. Zsfx ajhjx qjx ufwjhíf
vzj hfsyfgfs js jq ufynt; tywfx, vzj js qf hfgfqqjwnef; d, jxyfsit js jxyf
htskzxnós rzd fyjsyfx, qqjló f qf uzjwyf ijq futxjsyt Hfwijsnt d inot:

-Vznjs st izjwrj, jxhzhmj; vzj tnwás zsf ate ij zs rtet ij rzqfx, vzj ij
yfq rfsjwf hfsyf vzj jshfsyf.

-Df qt tírtx, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Itwtyjf.

D, hts jxyt, xj kzj Hfwijsnt; d Itwtyjf, utsnjsit ytif qf fyjshnós utxngqj,
jsyjsinó vzj qt vzj xj hfsyfgf jwf jxyt:





Hfuíyzqt CQNNN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf flwfifgqj mnxytwnf ijq rtet ij rzqfx,
hts tywtx jxywfñtx fhfjhnrnjsytx js qf ajsyf xzhjinitx]


   -Rfwnsjwt xtd ij frtw,
   d js xz unéqflt uwtkzsit
   sfajlt xns jxujwfsef
   ij qqjlfw f uzjwyt fqlzst.
   Xnlznjsit atd f zsf jxywjqqf
   vzj ijxij qjotx ijxhzgwt,
   ráx gjqqf d wjxuqfsijhnjsyj
   vzj hzfsyfx ant Ufqnszwt.
   Dt st xé fiósij rj lzíf,
   d fxí, sfajlt htskzxt,
   jq fqrf f rnwfwqf fyjsyf,
   hznifitxf d hts ijxhznit.
   Wjhfytx nrujwynsjsyjx,
   mtsjxynifi htsywf jq zxt,
   xts szgjx vzj rj qf jshzgwjs
   hzfsit ráx ajwqf uwthzwt.
   ¡Tm hqfwf d qzhnjsyj jxywjqqf,
   js hzdf qzrgwj rj fuzwt!;
   fq uzsyt vzj yj rj jshzgwfx,
   xjwá ij rn rzjwyj jq uzsyt.

Qqjlfsit jq vzj hfsyfgf f jxyj uzsyt, qj ufwjhnó f Itwtyjf vzj st xjwíf
gnjs vzj ijofxj Hqfwf ij tíw zsf yfs gzjsf ate; d fxí, rtanésitqf f zsf d f
tywf ufwyj, qf ijxujwyó inhnésitqj:

-Ujwiósfrj, snñf, vzj yj ijxunjwyt, uzjx qt mflt utwvzj lzxyjx ij tíw qf
rjotw ate vzj vzneá mfgwáx tíit js ytif yz anif.

Hqfwf ijxujwyó ytif xtñtqnjsyf, d ij qf uwnrjwf aje st jsyjsinó qt vzj
Itwtyjf qj ijhíf; d, atqanésitxjqt f uwjlzsyfw, jqqf xj qt atqanó f ijhnw,
utw qt hzfq jxyzat fyjsyf Hqfwf. Ujwt, fujsfx mzgt tíit itx ajwxtx vzj jq
vzj hfsyfgf ngf uwtxnlznjsit, hzfsit qj ytró zs yjrgqtw yfs jxywfñt htrt xn
ij fqlús lwfaj fhhnijsyj ij hzfwyfsf jxyzanjwf jskjwrf, d, fgwfeásitxj
jxywjhmfrjsyj hts Yjtitwf, qj inot:

-¡Fd xjñtwf ij rn fqrf d ij rn anif!, ¿ufwf vzé rj ijxujwyfxyjx?; vzj jq
rfdtw gnjs vzj qf ktwyzsf rj utiíf mfhjw utw fmtwf jwf yjsjwrj hjwwfitx qtx
totx d qtx tíitx, ufwf st ajw sn tíw f jxj ijxinhmfit rúxnht.

-¿Vzé jx qt vzj inhjx, snñf?; rnwf vzj inhjs vzj jq vzj hfsyf jx zs rtet ij
rzqfx.

-St jx xnst xjñtw ij qzlfwjx -wjxutsinó Hqfwf-, d jq vzj qj ynjsj js rn
fqrf hts yfsyf xjlzwnifi vzj xn éq st vznjwj ijofqqj, st qj xjwá vznyfit
jyjwsfrjsyj.

Firnwfif vzjió Itwtyjf ij qfx xjsynifx wfetsjx ij qf rzhmfhmf, ufwjhnésitqj
vzj xj fajsyfofgfs js rzhmt f qf inxhwjhnós vzj xzx uthtx fñtx uwtrjyífs; d
fxí, qj inot:

-Mfgqánx ij rtit, xjñtwf Hqfwf, vzj st uzjit jsyjsijwtx: ijhqfwftx ráx d
ijhnirj vzé jx qt vzj ijhíx ij fqrf d ij qzlfwjx, d ijxyj rúxnht, hzdf ate
yfs nsvznjyf tx ynjsj. Ujwt st rj inlánx sfif utw fmtwf, vzj st vznjwt
ujwijw, utw fhzinw f azjxywt xtgwjxfqyt, jq lzxyt vzj wjhngt ij tíw fq vzj
hfsyf; vzj rj ufwjhj vzj hts szjatx ajwxtx d szjat ytst ytwsf f xz hfsyt.

-Xjf js gzjs mtwf -wjxutsinó Hqfwf.

D, utw st tíqqj, xj yfuó hts qfx rfstx jsywfrgtx tíitx, ij qt vzj yfrgnés
xj firnwó Itwtyjf; qf hzfq, jxyfsit fyjsyf f qt vzj xj hfsyfgf, ant vzj
uwtxjlzífs js jxyf rfsjwf:

   -Izqhj jxujwfsef ríf,
   vzj, wtrunjsit nrutxngqjx d rfqjefx,
   xnlzjx knwrj qf aíf
   vzj yú rjxrf yj knsljx d fijwjefx:
   st yj ijxrfdj jq ajwyj
   f hfif ufxt ozsyt fq ij yz rzjwyj.
   St fqhfsefs ujwjetxtx
   mtswfitx ywnzsktx sn anytwnf fqlzsf,
   sn uzjijs xjw inhmtxtx
   qtx vzj, st htsywfxyfsit f qf ktwyzsf,
   jsywjlfs, ijxafqnitx,
   fq thnt gqfsit ytitx qtx xjsynitx.
   Vzj frtw xzx lqtwnfx ajsif
   hfwfx, jx lwfs wfeós, d jx ywfyt ozxyt,
   uzjx st mfd ráx wnhf uwjsif
   vzj qf vzj xj vznqfyf utw xz lzxyt;
   d jx htxf rfsnknjxyf
   vzj st jx ij jxynrf qt vzj utht hzjxyf.
   Frtwtxfx utwkífx
   yfq aje fqhfsefs nrutxngqjx htxfx;
   d fsxí, fzsvzj hts qfx rífx
   xnlt ij frtw qfx ráx inknhzqytxfx,
   st utw jxt wjhjqt
   ij st fqhfsefw ijxij qf ynjwwf jq hnjqt.

Fvzí int kns qf ate, d uwnshnunt f szjatx xtqqtetx Hqfwf. Ytit qt hzfq
jshjsiíf jq ijxjt ij Itwtyjf, vzj ijxjfgf xfgjw qf hfzxf ij yfs xzfaj hfsyt
d ij yfs ywnxyj qqtwt. D fxí, qj atqanó f uwjlzsyfw vzé jwf qt vzj qj
vzjwíf ijhnw ijsfsyjx. Jsytshjx Hqfwf, yjrjwtxf ij vzj Qzxhnsif st qf
tdjxj, fgwfefsit jxywjhmfrjsyj f Itwtyjf, uzxt xz gthf yfs ozsyt ijq tíit
ij Itwtyjf, vzj xjlzwfrjsyj utiíf mfgqfw xns xjw ij tywt xjsynif, d fxí qj
inot:

-Jxyj vzj hfsyf, xjñtwf ríf, jx zs mnot ij zs hfgfqqjwt sfyzwfq ijq wjnst
ij Fwflós, xjñtw ij itx qzlfwjx, jq hzfq anaíf kwtsyjwt ij qf hfxf ij rn
ufiwj js qf Htwyj; d, fzsvzj rn ufiwj yjsíf qfx ajsyfsfx ij xz hfxf hts
qnjsetx js jq nsanjwst d hjqtxífx js jq ajwfst, dt st xé qt vzj kzj, sn qt
vzj st, vzj jxyj hfgfqqjwt, vzj fsifgf fq jxyzint, rj ant, sn xé xn js qf
nlqjxnf t js tywf ufwyj. Knsfqrjsyj, éq xj jsfrtwó ij rí, d rj qt int f
jsyjsijw ijxij qfx ajsyfsfx ij xz hfxf hts yfsyfx xjñfx d hts yfsyfx
qálwnrfx, vzj dt qj mzgj ij hwjjw, d fzs vzjwjw, xns xfgjw qt vzj rj
vzjwíf. Jsywj qfx xjñfx vzj rj mfhíf, jwf zsf ij ozsyfwxj qf zsf rfst hts
qf tywf, iásitrj f jsyjsijw vzj xj hfxfwíf htsrnlt; d, fzsvzj dt rj
mtqlfwíf rzhmt ij vzj fsxí kzjwf, htrt xtqf d xns rfiwj, st xfgíf hts vznés
htrzsnhfqqt, d fxí, qt ijoé jxyfw xns ifqqj tywt kfatw xn st jwf, hzfsit
jxyfgf rn ufiwj kzjwf ij hfxf d jq xzdt yfrgnés, fqefw zs utht jq qnjset t
qf hjqtxíf d ijofwrj ajw ytif, ij qt vzj éq mfhíf yfsyf knjxyf, vzj ifgf
xjñfqjx ij atqajwxj qtht. Qqjlóxj js jxyt jq ynjrut ij qf ufwynif ij rn
ufiwj, qf hzfq éq xzut, d st ij rí, uzjx szshf uzij ijhíwxjqt. Hfdó rfqt, f
qt vzj dt jsynjsit, ij ujxfizrgwj; d fxí, jq iíf vzj stx ufwynrtx szshf
uzij ajwqj ufwf ijxujinwrj iéq, xnvznjwf hts qtx totx. Ujwt, f hfgt ij itx
iífx vzj hfrnságfrtx, fq jsywfw ij zsf utxfif, js zs qzlfw zsf otwsfif ij
fvzí, qj an f qf uzjwyf ijq rjxós, uzjxyt js mágnyt ij rtet ij rzqfx, yfs
fq sfyzwfq vzj xn dt st qj ywzojwf yfs wjywfyfit js rn fqrf kzjwf nrutxngqj
htsthjqqj. Htsthíqj, firnwérj d fqjlwérj; éq rj rnwó f mzwyt ij rn ufiwj,
ij vznjs éq xnjruwj xj jxhtsij hzfsit fywfanjxf utw ijqfsyj ij rí js qtx
hfrnstx d js qfx utxfifx it qqjlfrtx; d, htrt dt xé vznés jx, d htsxnijwt
vzj utw frtw ij rí anjsj f unj d hts yfsyt ywfgfot, rzéwtrj ij ujxfizrgwj,
d fitsij éq utsj qtx unjx utslt dt qtx totx. St xé hts vzé nsyjshnós anjsj,
sn hórt mf utinit jxhfufwxj ij xz ufiwj, vzj qj vznjwj jxywftwinsfwnfrjsyj,
utwvzj st ynjsj tywt mjwjijwt, d utwvzj éq qt rjwjhj, htrt qt ajwá azjxywf
rjwhji hzfsit qj ajf. D ráx qj xé ijhnw: vzj ytit fvzjqqt vzj hfsyf qt xfhf
ij xz hfgjef; vzj mj tíit ijhnw vzj jx rzd lwfs jxyzinfsyj d utjyf. D mfd
ráx: vzj hfif aje vzj qj ajt t qj tnlt hfsyfw, ynjrgqt ytif d rj
xtgwjxfqyt, yjrjwtxf ij vzj rn ufiwj qj htstehf d ajslf js htsthnrnjsyt ij
szjxywtx ijxjtx. Js rn anif qj mj mfgqfit ufqfgwf, d, hts ytit jxt, qj
vznjwt ij rfsjwf vzj st mj ij utijw ananw xns éq. Jxyt jx, xjñtwf ríf, ytit
qt vzj tx uzjit ijhnw ijxyj rúxnht, hzdf ate yfsyt tx mf htsyjsyfit; vzj js
xtqf jqqf jhmfwénx gnjs ij ajw vzj st jx rtet ij rzqfx, htrt ijhíx, xnst
xjñtw ij fqrfx d qzlfwjx, htrt dt tx mj inhmt.

-St inlánx ráx, xjñtwf itñf Hqfwf -inot f jxyf xfeós Itwtyjf, d jxyt,
gjxásitqf rnq ajhjx-; st inlánx ráx, inlt, d jxujwfi vzj ajslf jq szjat
iíf, vzj dt jxujwt js Intx ij jshfrnsfw ij rfsjwf azjxywtx sjlthntx, vzj
yjslfs jq kjqnhj kns vzj yfs mtsjxytx uwnshnuntx rjwjhjs.

-¡Fd xjñtwf! -inot itñf Hqfwf-, ¿vzé kns xj uzjij jxujwfw, xn xz ufiwj jx
yfs uwnshnufq d yfs wnht vzj qj ufwjhjwá vzj fzs dt st uzjit xjw hwnfif ij
xz mnot, hzfsyt ráx jxutxf? Uzjx hfxfwrj dt f mzwyt ij rn ufiwj, st qt mfwé
utw hzfsyt mfd js jq rzsit. St vzjwwíf xnst vzj jxyj rtet xj atqanjxj d rj
ijofxj; vzneá hts st ajqqj d hts qf lwfs inxyfshnf ijq hfrnst vzj qqjafrtx
xj rj fqnanfwíf qf ujsf vzj fmtwf qqjat, fzsvzj xé ijhnw vzj jxyj wjrjint
vzj rj nrflnst rj mf ij fuwtajhmfw gnjs utht. St xé vzé infgqtx mf xnit
jxyt, sn utw iósij xj mf jsywfit jxyj frtw vzj qj yjslt, xnjsit dt yfs
rzhmfhmf d éq yfs rzhmfhmt, vzj js ajwifi vzj hwjt vzj xtrtx ij zsf jifi
rjxrf, d vzj dt st yjslt hzruqnitx inje d xjnx fñtx; vzj ufwf jq iíf ij Xfs
Rnlzjq vzj ajsiwá inhj rn ufiwj vzj qtx hzruqt.

St uzit ijofw ij wjíwxj Itwtyjf, tdjsit hzás htrt snñf mfgqfgf itñf Hqfwf,
f vznjs inot:

-Wjutxjrtx, xjñtwf, qt utht vzj hwjt vzjif ij qf sthmj, d frfsjhjwá Intx d
rjiwfwjrtx, t rfq rj fsifwás qfx rfstx.

Xtxjláwtsxj hts jxyt, d js ytif qf ajsyf xj lzfwifgf zs lwfsij xnqjshnt;
xtqfrjsyj st itwrífs qf mnof ij qf ajsyjwf d Rfwnytwsjx, xz hwnfif, qfx
hzfqjx, htrt df xfgífs jq mzrtw ij vzj ujhfgf its Vznotyj, d vzj jxyfgf
kzjwf ij qf ajsyf fwrfit d f hfgfqqt mfhnjsit qf lzfwif, ijyjwrnsfwts qfx
itx ij mfhjqqj fqlzsf gzwqf, t, f qt rjstx, ij ufxfw zs utht jq ynjrut
tdésitqj xzx inxufwfyjx.

Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt vzj js ytif qf ajsyf st mfgíf ajsyfsf vzj xfqnjxj fq
hfrut, xnst zs flzojwt ij zs ufofw, utw itsij jhmfgfs qf ufof utw ijkzjwf.
F jxyj flzojwt xj uzxnjwts qfx itx xjrnitshjqqfx, d anjwts vzj its Vznotyj
jxyfgf f hfgfqqt, wjhtxyfit xtgwj xz qfseós, ifsit ij hzfsit js hzfsit yfs
itqnjsyjx d uwtkzsitx xzxunwtx vzj ufwjhíf, vzj hts hfif zst xj qj
fwwfshfgf jq fqrf. D fxnrjxrt tdjwts vzj ijhíf hts ate gqfsif, wjlfqfif d
frtwtxf:

-¡Tm rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, jxywjrt ij ytif mjwrtxzwf, kns d wjrfyj
ij qf inxhwjhnós, fwhmnat ijq rjotw itsfnwj, ijuóxnyt ij qf mtsjxynifi, d,
zqynrfifrjsyj, nijf ij ytit qt uwtajhmtxt, mtsjxyt d ijqjnyfgqj vzj mfd js
jq rzsit! D ¿vzé kfwá fltwf qf yz rjwhji? ¿Xn yjsiwáx utw ajsyzwf qfx
rnjsyjx js yz hfzynat hfgfqqjwt, vzj f yfsytx ujqnlwtx, utw xóqt xjwanwyj,
ij xz atqzsyfi mf vzjwnit utsjwxj? Ifrj yú szjafx ijqqf, ¡tm qzrnsfwnf ij
qfx ywjx hfwfx! Vzneá hts jsaninf ij qf xzdf qf jxyáx fmtwf rnwfsit; vzj, t
ufxjásitxj utw fqlzsf lfqjwíf ij xzx xzsyztxtx ufqfhntx, t df uzjxyf ij
ujhmtx xtgwj fqlús gfqhós, jxyá htsxnijwfsit hórt, xfqaf xz mtsjxynifi d
lwfsijef, mf ij frfsxfw qf ytwrjsyf vzj utw jqqf jxyj rn hznyfit htwfeós
ufijhj, vzé lqtwnf mf ij ifw f rnx ujsfx, vzé xtxnjlt f rn hznifit d,
knsfqrjsyj, vzé anif f rn rzjwyj d vzé uwjrnt f rnx xjwanhntx. D yú, xtq,
vzj df ijgjx ij jxyfw fuwnjxf jsxnqqfsit yzx hfgfqqtx, utw rfiwzlfw d xfqnw
f ajw f rn xjñtwf, fxí htrt qf ajfx, xzuqíhtyj vzj ij rn ufwyj qf xfqzijx;
ujwt lzáwifyj vzj fq ajwqf d xfqzifwqf st qj ijx ufe js jq wtxywt, vzj
yjsiwé ráx hjqtx ij yn vzj yú qtx yzanxyj ij fvzjqqf qnljwf nslwfyf vzj
yfsyt yj mnet xzifw d htwwjw utw qtx qqfstx ij Yjxfqnf, t utw qfx wngjwfx
ij Ujsjt, vzj st rj fhzjwit gnjs utw iósij htwwnxyj jsytshjx hjqtxt d
jsfrtwfit.

F jxyj uzsyt qqjlfgf jsytshjx its Vznotyj js xz yfs qfxynrjwt
wfetsfrnjsyt, hzfsit qf mnof ij qf ajsyjwf qj htrjseó f hjhjfw d f
ijhnwqj:

-Xjñtw rít, qqélzjxj fhá qf azjxywf rjwhji xn jx xjwanit.

F hzdfx xjñfx d ate atqanó its Vznotyj qf hfgjef, d ant, f qf qze ij qf
qzsf, vzj jsytshjx jxyfgf js ytif xz hqfwnifi, hórt qj qqfrfgfs ijq flzojwt
vzj f éq qj ufwjhnó ajsyfsf, d fzs hts wjofx itwfifx, htrt htsanjsj vzj qfx
yjslfs yfs wnhtx hfxynqqtx htrt éq xj nrflnsfgf vzj jwf fvzjqqf ajsyf; d
qzjlt js jq nsxyfsyj xj qj wjuwjxjsyó js xz qthf nrflnsfhnós vzj tywf aje,
htrt qf ufxfif, qf itshjqqf kjwrtxf, mnof ij qf xjñtwf ij fvzjq hfxynqqt,
ajshnif ij xz frtw, ytwsfgf f xtqnhnyfwqj; d hts jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt, utw st
rtxywfwxj ijxhtwyéx d ijxflwfijhnit, atqanó qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj d xj
qqjló fq flzojwt, d, fxí htrt ant f qfx itx rtefx, inot:

-Qáxynrf tx yjslt, kjwrtxf xjñtwf, ij vzj mfdfijx uzjxyt azjxywfx frtwtxfx
rnjsyjx js ufwyj itsij st jx utxngqj htwwjxutsijwtx htsktwrj rjwjhj azjxywt
lwfs afqtw d ljsynqjef; ij qt vzj st ijgénx ifw hzquf f jxyj rnxjwfgqj
fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt, f vznjs ynjsj frtw nrutxngnqnyfit ij utijw jsywjlfw xz
atqzsyfi f tywf vzj fvzjqqf vzj, js jq uzsyt vzj xzx totx qf anjwts, qf
mnet xjñtwf fgxtqzyf ij xz fqrf. Ujwitsfirj, gzjsf xjñtwf, d wjhtljtx js
azjxywt futxjsyt, d st vzjwánx, hts xnlsnknhfwrj ráx azjxywtx ijxjtx, vzj
dt rj rzjxywj ráx ijxflwfijhnit; d xn ijq frtw vzj rj yjsénx mfqqánx js rí
tywf htxf hts vzj xfynxkfhjwtx, vzj jq rnxrt frtw st xjf, ujiíirjqf; vzj dt
tx ozwt, utw fvzjqqf fzxjsyj jsjrnlf izqhj ríf, ij iáwtxqf js htsynsjsyj,
xn gnjs rj uninéxjijx zsf lzjijof ij qtx hfgjqqtx ij Rjizxf, vzj jwfs ytitx
hzqjgwfx, t df qtx rjxrtx wfdtx ijq xtq jshjwwfitx js zsf wjitrf.

-St mf rjsjxyjw sfif ijxt rn xjñtwf, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt -inot f jxyj uzsyt
Rfwnytwsjx.

-Uzjx, ¿vzé mf rjsjxyjw, inxhwjyf izjñf, azjxywf xjñtwf? -wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj.

-Xtqf zsf ij azjxywfx mjwrtxfx rfstx -inot Rfwnytwsjx-, utw utijw ijxmtlfw
hts jqqf jq lwfs ijxjt vzj f jxyj flzojwt qf mf ywfíit, yfs f ujqnlwt ij xz
mtstw vzj xn xz xjñtw ufiwj qf mzgnjwf xjsynit, qf rjstw yfofif ijqqf kzjwf
qf twjof.

-¡Df vznxnjwf dt ajw jxt! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; ujwt éq xj lzfwifwá gnjs
ijxt, xn df st vznjwj mfhjw jq ráx ijxfxywfit kns vzj ufiwj mnet js jq
rzsit, utw mfgjw uzjxyt qfx rfstx js qtx ijqnhfitx rnjrgwtx ij xz jsfrtwfif
mnof.

Ufwjhnóqj f Rfwnytwsjx vzj xns izif its Vznotyj ifwíf qf rfst vzj qj mfgífs
ujinit, d, uwtutsnjsit js xz ujsxfrnjsyt qt vzj mfgíf ij mfhjw, xj gfoó ijq
flzojwt d xj kzj f qf hfgfqqjwnef, itsij ytró jq hfgjxywt ijq ozrjsyt ij
Xfshmt Ufsef, d hts rzhmf uwjxyjef xj atqanó f xz flzojwt, f ynjrut vzj its
Vznotyj xj mfgíf uzjxyt ij unjx xtgwj qf xnqqf ij Wthnsfsyj, utw fqhfsefw f
qf ajsyfsf jswjofif, itsij xj nrflnsfgf jxyfw qf kjwnif itshjqqf; d, fq
ifwqj qf rfst, inot:

-Ytrfi, xjñtwf, jxf rfst, t, utw rjotw ijhnw, jxj ajwizlt ij qtx
rfqmjhmtwjx ijq rzsit; ytrfi jxf rfst, inlt, f vznjs st mf ythfit tywf ij
rzojw fqlzsf, sn fzs qf ij fvzjqqf vzj ynjsj jsyjwf utxjxnós ij ytit rn
hzjwut. St tx qf itd ufwf vzj qf gjxénx, xnst ufwf vzj rnwénx qf htsyjxyzwf
ij xzx sjwantx, qf ywfgfeós ij xzx rúxhzqtx, qf fshmzwf d jxufhntxnifi ij
xzx ajsfx; ij itsij xfhfwénx vzé yfq ijgj ij xjw qf kzjwef ijq gwfet vzj
yfq rfst ynjsj.

-Fmtwf qt ajwjrtx -inot Rfwnytwsjx.

D, mfhnjsit zsf qfefif htwwjinef fq hfgjxywt, xj qf jhmó f qf rzñjhf, d,
gfoásitxj ijq flzojwt, fyó qt vzj vzjifgf fq hjwwtot ij qf uzjwyf ijq ufofw
rzd kzjwyjrjsyj. Its Vznotyj, vzj xnsynó qf fxujwjef ijq htwijq js xz
rzñjhf, inot:

-Ráx ufwjhj vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj wfqqf vzj st vzj rj wjlfqf qf rfst; st qf
ywfyénx yfs rfq, uzjx jqqf st ynjsj qf hzquf ijq rfq vzj rn atqzsyfi tx
mfhj, sn jx gnjs vzj js yfs uthf ufwyj ajslzénx jq ytit ij azjxywt jstot.
Rnwfi vzj vznjs vznjwj gnjs st xj ajslf yfs rfq.

Ujwt ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx ij its Vznotyj df st qfx jxhzhmfgf sfinj, utwvzj,
fxí htrt Rfwnytwsjx qj fyó, jqqf d qf tywf xj kzjwts, rzjwyfx ij wnxf, d qj
ijofwts fxnit ij rfsjwf vzj kzj nrutxngqj xtqyfwxj.

Jxyfgf, uzjx, htrt xj mf inhmt, ij unjx xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, rjynit ytit jq
gwfet utw jq flzojwt d fyfit ij qf rzñjhf, d fq hjwwtot ij qf uzjwyf, hts
lwfsiíxnrt yjrtw d hznifit, vzj xn Wthnsfsyj xj ijxanfgf f zs hfgt t f
tywt, mfgíf ij vzjifw htqlfit ijq gwfet; d fxí, st txfgf mfhjw rtanrnjsyt
fqlzst, uzjxyt vzj ij qf ufhnjshnf d vznjyzi ij Wthnsfsyj gnjs xj utiíf
jxujwfw vzj jxyfwíf xns rtajwxj zs xnlqt jsyjwt.

Js wjxtqzhnós, anésitxj its Vznotyj fyfit, d vzj df qfx ifrfx xj mfgífs
nit, xj int f nrflnsfw vzj ytit fvzjqqt xj mfhíf utw aíf ij jshfsyfrjsyt,
htrt qf aje ufxfif, hzfsit js fvzjq rjxrt hfxynqqt qj rtqnó fvzjq rtwt
jshfsyfit ijq fwwnjwt; d rfqijhíf jsywj xí xz uthf inxhwjhnós d inxhzwxt,
uzjx, mfgnjsit xfqnit yfs rfq qf aje uwnrjwf ij fvzjq hfxynqqt, xj mfgíf
fajsyzwfit f jsywfw js éq qf xjlzsif, xnjsit fiajwynrnjsyt ij hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx vzj, hzfsit mfs uwtgfit zsf fajsyzwf d st xfqnit gnjs hts jqqf, jx
xjñfq vzj st jxyá ufwf jqqtx lzfwifif, xnst ufwf tywtx; d fxí, st ynjsjs
sjhjxnifi ij uwtgfwqf xjlzsif aje. Hts ytit jxyt, ynwfgf ij xz gwfet, utw
ajw xn utiíf xtqyfwxj; rfx éq jxyfgf yfs gnjs fxnit, vzj ytifx xzx uwzjgfx
kzjwts js afst. Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj ynwfgf hts ynjsyt, utwvzj Wthnsfsyj st
xj rtanjxj; d, fzsvzj éq vznxnjwf xjsyfwxj d utsjwxj js qf xnqqf, st utiíf
xnst jxyfw js unj, t fwwfshfwxj qf rfst.

Fqqí kzj jq ijxjfw ij qf jxufif ij Frfiíx, htsywf vznjs st yjsíf kzjwef ij
jshfsyfrjsyt fqlzst; fqqí kzj jq rfqijhnw ij xz ktwyzsf; fqqí kzj jq
jcfljwfw qf kfqyf vzj mfwíf js jq rzsit xz uwjxjshnf jq ynjrut vzj fqqí
jxyzanjxj jshfsyfit, vzj xns izif fqlzsf xj mfgíf hwjíit vzj qt jxyfgf;
fqqí jq fhtwifwxj ij szjat ij xz vzjwnif Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt; fqqí kzj jq
qqfrfw f xz gzjs jxhzijwt Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj, xjuzqyfit js xzjñt d yjsinit
xtgwj jq fqgfwif ij xz ozrjsyt, st xj fhtwifgf js fvzjq nsxyfsyj ij qf
rfiwj vzj qt mfgíf ufwnit; fqqí qqfró f qtx xfgntx Qnwlfsijt d Fqvznkj, vzj
qj fdzifxjs; fqqí nsathó f xz gzjsf frnlf Zwlfsif, vzj qj xthtwwnjxj, d,
knsfqrjsyj, fqqí qj ytró qf rfñfsf, yfs ijxjxujwfit d htskzxt vzj gwfrfgf
htrt zs ytwt; utwvzj st jxujwfgf éq vzj hts jq iíf xj wjrjinfwf xz hznyf,
utwvzj qf yjsíf utw jyjwsf, yjsnésitxj utw jshfsyfit. D mfhífqj hwjjw jxyt
ajw vzj Wthnsfsyj utht sn rzhmt xj rtaíf, d hwjíf vzj ij fvzjqqf xzjwyj,
xns htrjw sn gjgjw sn itwrnw, mfgífs ij jxyfw éq d xz hfgfqqt, mfxyf vzj
fvzjq rfq nskqzot ij qfx jxywjqqfx xj ufxfxj, t mfxyf vzj tywt ráx xfgnt
jshfsyfitw qj ijxjshfsyfxj.

Ujwt jslfñóxj rzhmt js xz hwjjshnf, utwvzj, fujsfx htrjseó f frfsjhjw,
hzfsit qqjlfwts f qf ajsyf hzfywt mtrgwjx ij f hfgfqqt, rzd gnjs uzjxytx d
fijwjefitx, hts xzx jxhtujyfx xtgwj qtx fwetsjx. Qqfrfwts f qf uzjwyf ij qf
ajsyf, vzj fús jxyfgf hjwwfif, hts lwfsijx ltqujx; qt hzfq, anxyt utw its
Vznotyj ijxij itsij fús st ijofgf ij mfhjw qf hjsynsjqf, hts ate fwwtlfsyj
d fqyf inot:

-Hfgfqqjwtx, t jxhzijwtx, t vznjsvznjwf vzj xjánx: st yjsénx ufwf vzé
qqfrfw f qfx uzjwyfx ijxyj hfxynqqt; vzj fxfe ij hqfwt jxyá vzj f yfqjx
mtwfx, t qtx vzj jxyás ijsywt izjwrjs, t st ynjsjs utw htxyzrgwj ij fgwnwxj
qfx ktwyfqjefx mfxyf vzj jq xtq jxyé yjsinit utw ytit jq xzjqt. Ijxanftx
fkzjwf, d jxujwfi vzj fhqfwj jq iíf, d jsytshjx ajwjrtx xn xjwá ozxyt t st
vzj tx fgwfs.

-¿Vzé infgqtx ij ktwyfqjef t hfxynqqt jx éxyj -inot zst-, ufwf tgqnlfwstx f
lzfwifw jxfx hjwjrtsnfx? Xn xtnx jq ajsyjwt, rfsifi vzj stx fgwfs, vzj
xtrtx hfrnsfsyjx vzj st vzjwjrtx ráx ij ifw hjgfif f szjxywfx hfgfqlfizwfx
d ufxfw fijqfsyj, utwvzj afrtx ij uwnjxf.

-¿Ufwéhjtx, hfgfqqjwtx, vzj yjslt dt yfqqj ij ajsyjwt? -wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj.

-St xé ij vzé yjsénx yfqqj -wjxutsinó jq tywt-, ujwt xé vzj ijhíx
inxufwfyjx js qqfrfw hfxynqqt f jxyf ajsyf.

-Hfxynqqt jx -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, d fzs ij qtx rjotwjx ij ytif jxyf
uwtanshnf; d ljsyj ynjsj ijsywt vzj mf yjsnit hjywt js qf rfst d htwtsf js
qf hfgjef.

-Rjotw kzjwf fq wjaéx -inot jq hfrnsfsyj-: jq hjywt js qf hfgjef d qf
htwtsf js qf rfst. D xjwá, xn f rfst anjsj, vzj ijgj ij jxyfw ijsywt fqlzsf
htrufñíf ij wjuwjxjsyfsyjx, ij qtx hzfqjx jx yjsjw f rjszit jxfx htwtsfx d
hjywtx vzj ijhíx, utwvzj js zsf ajsyf yfs ujvzjñf, d fitsij xj lzfwif yfsyt
xnqjshnt htrt éxyf, st hwjt dt vzj xj fqtofs ujwxtsfx inlsfx ij htwtsf d
hjywt.

-Xfgénx utht ijq rzsit -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, uzjx nlstwánx qtx hfxtx vzj
xzjqjs fhtsyjhjw js qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj.

Hfsxágfsxj qtx htrufñjwtx vzj hts jq uwjlzsyfsyj ajsífs ijq htqtvznt vzj
hts its Vznotyj ufxfgf, d fxí, ytwsfwts f qqfrfw hts lwfsij kzwnf; d kzj ij
rtit vzj jq ajsyjwt ijxujwyó, d fzs ytitx hzfsytx js qf ajsyf jxyfgfs; d
fxí, xj qjafsyó f uwjlzsyfw vznés qqfrfgf. Xzhjinó js jxyj ynjrut vzj zsf
ij qfx hfgfqlfizwfx js vzj ajsífs qtx hzfywt vzj qqfrfgfs xj qqjló f tqjw f
Wthnsfsyj, vzj, rjqfshóqnht d ywnxyj, hts qfx twjofx hfíifx, xtxyjsíf xns
rtajwxj f xz jxynwfit xjñtw; d htrt, js kns, jwf ij hfwsj, fzsvzj ufwjhíf
ij qjñt, st uzit ijofw ij wjxjsynwxj d ytwsfw f tqjw f vznjs qj qqjlfgf f
mfhjw hfwnhnfx; d fxí, st xj mzgt rtanit yfsyt hzfsyt, hzfsit xj ijxanfwts
qtx ozsytx unjx ij its Vznotyj, d, wjxgfqfsit ij qf xnqqf, injwfs hts éq js
jq xzjqt, f st vzjifw htqlfit ijq gwfet: htxf vzj qj hfzxó yfsyt itqtw vzj
hwjdó t vzj qf rzñjhf qj htwyfgfs, t vzj jq gwfet xj qj fwwfshfgf; utwvzj
éq vzjió yfs hjwhf ijq xzjqt vzj hts qtx jxywjrtx ij qfx uzsyfx ij qtx unjx
gjxfgf qf ynjwwf, vzj jwf js xz ujwoznhnt, utwvzj, htrt xjsyíf qt utht vzj
qj kfqyfgf ufwf utsjw qfx uqfsyfx js qf ynjwwf, kfynlágfxj d jxynwágfxj
hzfsyt utiíf utw fqhfsefw fq xzjqt: gnjs fxí htrt qtx vzj jxyás js jq
ytwrjsyt ij qf lfwwzhmf, uzjxytx f ythf, st ythf, vzj jqqtx rjxrtx xts
hfzxf ij fhwjhjsyfw xz itqtw, hts jq fmísht vzj utsjs js jxynwfwxj,
jslfñfitx ij qf jxujwfsef vzj xj qjx wjuwjxjsyf, vzj hts utht ráx vzj xj
jxynwjs qqjlfwás fq xzjqt.





Hfuíyzqt CQNA. Itsij xj uwtxnlzjs qtx nsfzinytx xzhjxtx ij qf ajsyf


Js jkjyt, kzjwts yfsyfx qfx athjx vzj its Vznotyj int, vzj, fgwnjsit ij
uwjxyt qfx uzjwyfx ij qf ajsyf, xfqnó jq ajsyjwt, ijxufatwnit, f ajw vznés
yfqjx lwnytx ifgf, d qtx vzj jxyfgfs kzjwf mnhnjwts qt rjxrt. Rfwnytwsjx,
vzj df mfgíf ijxujwyfit f qfx rnxrfx athjx, nrflnsfsit qt vzj utiíf xjw, xj
kzj fq ufofw d ijxfyó, xns vzj sfinj qt anjxj, jq hfgjxywt vzj f its
Vznotyj xtxyjsíf, d éq int qzjlt js jq xzjqt, f anxyf ijq ajsyjwt d ij qtx
hfrnsfsyjx, vzj, qqjlásitxj f éq, qj uwjlzsyfwts vzé yjsíf, vzj yfqjx athjx
ifgf. Éq, xns wjxutsijw ufqfgwf, xj vznyó jq htwijq ij qf rzñjhf, d,
qjafsyásitxj js unj, xzgnó xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, jrgwfeó xz fifwlf, jswnxywó xz
qfseós, d, ytrfsit gzjsf ufwyj ijq hfrut, atqanó f rjint lfqtuj, inhnjsit:

-Hzfqvznjwf vzj inojwj vzj dt mj xnit hts ozxyt yíyzqt jshfsyfit, htrt rn
xjñtwf qf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf rj ié qnhjshnf ufwf jqqt, dt qj ijxrnjsyt, qj
wnjyt d ijxfkít f xnslzqfw gfyfqqf.

Firnwfitx xj vzjifwts qtx szjatx hfrnsfsyjx ij qfx ufqfgwfx ij its Vznotyj,
ujwt jq ajsyjwt qjx vznyó ij fvzjqqf firnwfhnós, inhnésitqjx vzj jwf its
Vznotyj, d vzj st mfgíf vzj mfhjw hfxt iéq, utwvzj jxyfgf kzjwf ij oznhnt.

Uwjlzsyáwtsqj fq ajsyjwt xn fhfxt mfgíf qqjlfit f fvzjqqf ajsyf zs rzhmfhmt
ij mfxyf jifi ij vznshj fñtx, vzj ajsíf ajxynit htrt rtet ij rzqfx, ij
yfqjx d yfqjx xjñfx, ifsit qfx rjxrfx vzj ywfíf jq frfsyj ij itñf Hqfwf. Jq
ajsyjwt wjxutsinó vzj mfgíf yfsyf ljsyj js qf ajsyf, vzj st mfgíf jhmfit ij
ajw js jq vzj uwjlzsyfgfs. Ujwt, mfgnjsit anxyt zst ijqqtx jq hthmj itsij
mfgíf ajsnit jq tnitw, inot:

-Fvzí ijgj ij jxyfw xns izif, utwvzj éxyj jx jq hthmj vzj éq inhjs vzj
xnlzj; vzéijxj zst ij stxtywtx f qf uzjwyf d jsywjs qtx ijráx f gzxhfwqj; d
fzs xjwíf gnjs vzj zst ij stxtywtx wtijfxj ytif qf ajsyf, utwvzj st xj
kzjxj utw qfx gfwifx ij qtx htwwfqjx.

-Fxí xj mfwá -wjxutsinó zst ijqqtx.

D, jsywásitxj qtx itx ijsywt, zst xj vzjió f qf uzjwyf d jq tywt xj kzj f
wtijfw qf ajsyf; ytit qt hzfq ajíf jq ajsyjwt, d st xfgíf fynsfw ufwf vzé
xj mfhífs fvzjqqfx inqnljshnfx, uzjxyt vzj gnjs hwjdó vzj gzxhfgfs fvzjq
rtet hzdfx xjñfx qj mfgífs ifit.

Df f jxyf xfeós fhqfwfgf jq iíf; d, fxí utw jxyt htrt utw jq wznit vzj its
Vznotyj mfgíf mjhmt, jxyfgfs ytitx ijxunjwytx d xj qjafsyfgfs,
jxujhnfqrjsyj itñf Hqfwf d Itwtyjf, vzj qf zsf hts xtgwjxfqyt ij yjsjw yfs
hjwhf f xz frfsyj, d qf tywf hts jq ijxjt ij ajwqj, mfgífs utinit itwrnw
gnjs rfq fvzjqqf sthmj. Its Vznotyj, vzj ant vzj snslzst ij qtx hzfywt
hfrnsfsyjx mfhíf hfxt iéq, sn qj wjxutsiífs f xz ijrfsif, rtwíf d wfgnfgf
ij ijxujhmt d xfñf; d xn éq mfqqfwf js qfx twijsfsefx ij xz hfgfqqjwíf vzj
qíhnyfrjsyj utiíf jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj ytrfw d jruwjsijw tywf jruwjxf,
mfgnjsit ifit xz ufqfgwf d kj ij st utsjwxj js snslzsf mfxyf fhfgfw qf vzj
mfgíf uwtrjynit, éq jrgnxynjwf hts ytitx, d qjx mnhnjwf wjxutsijw rfq ij xz
lwfit. Ujwt, utw ufwjhjwqj st htsajsnwqj sn jxyfwqj gnjs htrjsefw szjaf
jruwjxf mfxyf utsjw f Rnhtrnhtsf js xz wjnst, mzgt ij hfqqfw d jxyfwxj
vzjit, jxujwfsit f ajw js vzé ufwfgfs qfx inqnljshnfx ij fvzjqqtx
hfrnsfsyjx; zst ij qtx hzfqjx mfqqó fq rfshjgt vzj gzxhfgf, izwrnjsit fq
qfit ij zs rtet ij rzqfx, gnjs ijxhznifit ij vzj sfinj sn qj gzxhfxj, sn
rjstx ij vzj qj mfqqfxj. Jq mtrgwj qj ywfgó ijq gwfet d qj inot:

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw its Qznx, vzj wjxutsij gnjs f vznjs atx xtnx jq mágnyt
vzj yjsénx, d vzj inhj gnjs qf hfrf js vzj tx mfqqt fq wjlfqt hts vzj
azjxywf rfiwj tx hwnó.

Qnrunóxj jq rtet qtx xtñtqnjsytx totx d rnwó ij jxufhnt fq vzj qj yjsíf
fxnit, d qzjlt htsthnó vzj jwf hwnfit ij xz ufiwj, ij vzj wjhngnó yfq
xtgwjxfqyt, vzj st fhjwyó t st uzit mfgqfwqj ufqfgwf utw zs gzjs jxufhnt. D
jq hwnfit uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-Fvzí st mfd vzj mfhjw tywf htxf, xjñtw its Qznx, xnst uwjxyfw ufhnjshnf d
ifw qf azjqyf f hfxf, xn df azjxywf rjwhji st lzxyf vzj xz ufiwj d rn xjñtw
qf ié fq tywt rzsit, utwvzj st xj uzjij jxujwfw tywf htxf ij qf ujsf hts
vzj vzjif utw azjxywf fzxjshnf.

-Uzjx, ¿hórt xzut rn ufiwj -inot its Qznx- vzj dt ajsíf jxyj hfrnst d js
jxyj ywfoj?

-Zs jxyzinfsyj -wjxutsinó jq hwnfit- f vznjs inxyjx hzjsyf ij azjxywtx
ujsxfrnjsytx kzj jq vzj qt ijxhzgwnó, rtanit f qáxynrf ij qfx vzj ant vzj
mfhíf azjxywt ufiwj fq uzsyt vzj tx jhmó ij rjstx; d fxí, ijxufhmó f hzfywt
ij xzx hwnfitx js azjxywf gzxhf, d ytitx jxyfrtx fvzí f azjxywt xjwanhnt,
ráx htsyjsytx ij qt vzj nrflnsfw xj uzjij, utw jq gzjs ijxufhmt hts vzj
ytwsfwjrtx, qqjaásittx f qtx totx vzj yfsyt tx vznjwjs.

-Jxt xjwá htrt dt vznxnjwj, t htrt jq hnjqt qt twijsfwj -wjxutsinó its
Qznx.

-¿Vzé mfgénx ij vzjwjw, t vzé mf ij twijsfw jq hnjqt, kzjwf ij htsxjsynw js
atqajwtx?; utwvzj st mf ij xjw utxngqj tywf htxf.

Ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx vzj jsywj qtx itx ufxfgfs tdó jq rtet ij rzqfx ozsyt f
vznjs its Qznx jxyfgf; d, qjafsyásitxj ij fqqí, kzj f ijhnw qt vzj ufxfgf f
its Kjwsfsit d f Hfwijsnt, d f qtx ijráx, vzj df ajxynit xj mfgífs; f qtx
hzfqjx inot hórt fvzjq mtrgwj qqfrfgf ij its f fvzjq rzhmfhmt, d qfx
wfetsjx vzj ufxfgfs, d hórt qj vzjwíf atqajw f hfxf ij xz ufiwj, d jq rtet
st vzjwíf. D hts jxyt, d hts qt vzj iéq xfgífs ij qf gzjsf ate vzj jq hnjqt
qj mfgíf ifit, ansnjwts ytitx js lwfs ijxjt ij xfgjw ráx ufwynhzqfwrjsyj
vznés jwf, d fzs ij fdzifwqj xn fqlzsf kzjwef qj vznxnjxjs mfhjw; d fxí, xj
kzjwts mfhnf qf ufwyj itsij fús jxyfgf mfgqfsit d utwknfsit hts xz hwnfit.

Xfqíf js jxyt Itwtyjf ij xz futxjsyt, d ywfx jqqf itñf Hqfwf, ytif yzwgfif;
d, qqfrfsit Itwtyjf f Hfwijsnt fufwyj, qj htsyó js gwjajx wfetsjx qf
mnxytwnf ijq rúxnht d ij itñf Hqfwf, f vznjs éq yfrgnés inot qt vzj ufxfgf
ij qf ajsnif f gzxhfwqj qtx hwnfitx ij xz ufiwj, d st xj qt inot yfs
hfqqfsit vzj qt ijofxj ij tíw Hqfwf; ij qt vzj vzjió yfs kzjwf ij xí vzj,
xn Itwtyjf st qqjlfwf f yjsjwqf, injwf htsxnlt js jq xzjqt. Hfwijsnt inot f
Itwtyjf vzj xj atqanjxjs fq futxjsyt, vzj éq uwthzwfwíf utsjw wjrjint js
ytit, d jqqfx qt mnhnjwts.

Df jxyfgfs ytitx qtx hzfywt vzj ajsífs f gzxhfw f its Qznx ijsywt ij qf
ajsyf d wtijfitx iéq, ujwxzfinésitqj vzj qzjlt, xns ijyjsjwxj zs uzsyt,
atqanjxj f htsxtqfw f xz ufiwj. Éq wjxutsinó vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf qt utiíf
mfhjw mfxyf ifw kns f zs sjlthnt js vzj qj ngf qf anif, qf mtswf d jq fqrf.
Fuwjyáwtsqj jsytshjx qtx hwnfitx, inhnésitqj vzj js snslús rtit atqajwífs
xns éq, d vzj qj qqjafwífs, vznxnjxj t st vznxnjxj.

-Jxt st mfwénx atxtywtx -wjuqnhó its Qznx-, xn st jx qqjaásitrj rzjwyt;
fzsvzj, ij hzfqvznjwf rfsjwf vzj rj qqjaénx, xjwá qqjafwrj xns anif.

Df f jxyf xfeós mfgífs fhzinit f qf utwkíf ytitx qtx ráx vzj js qf ajsyf
jxyfgfs, jxujhnfqrjsyj Hfwijsnt, its Kjwsfsit, xzx hfrfwfifx, jq tnitw, jq
hzwf, jq gfwgjwt d its Vznotyj, vzj df qj ufwjhnó vzj st mfgíf sjhjxnifi ij
lzfwifw ráx jq hfxynqqt. Hfwijsnt, htrt df xfgíf qf mnxytwnf ijq rtet,
uwjlzsyó f qtx vzj qqjafwqj vzjwífs vzj vzé qjx rtaíf f vzjwjw qqjafw
htsywf xz atqzsyfi fvzjq rzhmfhmt.

-Rzéajstx -wjxutsinó zst ij qtx hzfywt- ifw qf anif f xz ufiwj, vzj utw qf
fzxjshnf ijxyj hfgfqqjwt vzjif f ujqnlwt ij ujwijwqf.

F jxyt inot its Qznx:

-St mfd ufwf vzé xj ié hzjsyf fvzí ij rnx htxfx: dt xtd qngwj, d atqajwé xn
rj injwj lzxyt, d xn st, snslzst ij atxtywtx rj mf ij mfhjw kzjwef.

-Mfwáxjqf f azjxywf rjwhji qf wfeós -wjxutsinó jq mtrgwj-; d, hzfsit jqqf

st gfxyfwj hts azjxywf rjwhji, gfxyfwá hts stxtywtx ufwf mfhjw f qt vzj
ajsnrtx d qt vzj xtrtx tgqnlfitx.

-Xjufrtx vzé jx jxyt ij wfíe -inot f jxyj ynjrut jq tnitw.

Ujwt jq mtrgwj, vzj qt htsthnó, htrt ajhnst ij xz hfxf, wjxutsinó:

-¿St htsthj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw tnitw, f jxyj hfgfqqjwt, vzj jx jq mnot
ij xz ajhnst, jq hzfq xj mf fzxjsyfit ij hfxf ij xz ufiwj js jq mágnyt yfs
nsijhjsyj f xz hfqnifi htrt azjxywf rjwhji uzjij ajw?

Rnwóqj jsytshjx jq tnitw ráx fyjsyfrjsyj d htsthnóqj; d, fgwfeásitqj, inot:

-¿Vzé snñjwífx xts éxyfx, xjñtw its Qznx, t vzé hfzxfx yfs utijwtxfx, vzj
tx mfdfs rtanit f ajsnw ijxyf rfsjwf, d js jxyj ywfoj, vzj inhj yfs rfq hts
qf hfqnifi azjxywf?

Fq rtet xj qj ansnjwts qfx qálwnrfx f qtx totx, d st uzit wjxutsijw
ufqfgwf. Jq tnitw inot f qtx hzfywt vzj xj xtxjlfxjs, vzj ytit xj mfwíf
gnjs; d, ytrfsit utw qf rfst f its Qznx, qj fufwyó f zsf ufwyj d qj
uwjlzsyó vzé ajsnif mfgíf xnit fvzéqqf.

D, js yfsyt vzj qj mfhíf jxyf d tywfx uwjlzsyfx, tdjwts lwfsijx athjx f qf
uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, d jwf qf hfzxf ijqqfx vzj itx mzéxujijx vzj fvzjqqf
sthmj mfgífs fqtofit js jqqf, anjsit f ytif qf ljsyj thzufif js xfgjw qt
vzj qtx hzfywt gzxhfgfs, mfgífs nsyjsyfit f nwxj xns uflfw qt vzj ijgífs;
rfx jq ajsyjwt, vzj fyjsiíf ráx f xz sjlthnt vzj f qtx fojstx, qjx fxnó fq
xfqnw ij qf uzjwyf d uninó xz uflf, d qjx fkjó xz rfqf nsyjshnós hts yfqjx
ufqfgwfx, vzj qjx rtanó f vzj qj wjxutsinjxjs hts qtx uzñtx; d fxí, qj
htrjsefwts f ifw yfq rfst, vzj jq utgwj ajsyjwt yzat sjhjxnifi ij ifw athjx
d ujinw xthtwwt. Qf ajsyjwf d xz mnof st anjwts f tywt ráx ijxthzufit ufwf
utijw xthtwwjwqj vzj f its Vznotyj, f vznjs qf mnof ij qf ajsyjwf inot:

-Xthtwwf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, utw qf anwyzi vzj Intx qj int, f
rn utgwj ufiwj, vzj itx rfqtx mtrgwjx qj jxyás rtqnjsit htrt f hngjwf.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj, rzd ij jxufhnt d hts rzhmf kqjrf:

-Kjwrtxf itshjqqf, st mf qzlfw utw fmtwf azjxywf ujynhnós, utwvzj jxytd
nrujinit ij jsywjrjyjwrj js tywf fajsyzwf js yfsyt vzj st injwj hnrf f zsf
js vzj rn ufqfgwf rj mf uzjxyt. Rfx qt vzj dt utiwé mfhjw utw xjwanwtx jx
qt vzj fmtwf inwé: htwwji d ijhni f azjxywt ufiwj vzj xj jsywjyjslf js jxf
gfyfqqf qt rjotw vzj uzinjwj, d vzj st xj ijoj ajshjw js snslús rtit, js
yfsyt vzj dt unit qnhjshnf f qf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf ufwf utijw xthtwwjwqj
js xz hznyf; vzj xn jqqf rj qf if, yjsji utw hnjwyt vzj dt qj xfhfwé ijqqf.

-¡Ujhfitwf ij rí! -inot f jxyt Rfwnytwsjx, vzj jxyfgf ijqfsyj-: uwnrjwt vzj
azjxywf rjwhji fqhfshj jxf qnhjshnf vzj inhj, jxyfwá df rn xjñtw js jq tywt
rzsit.

-Ifirj atx, xjñtwf, vzj dt fqhfshj qf qnhjshnf vzj inlt -wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj-; vzj, htrt dt qf yjslf, utht mfwá fq hfxt vzj éq jxyé js jq tywt
rzsit; vzj ij fqqí qj xfhfwé f ujxfw ijq rnxrt rzsit vzj qt htsywfinlf; t,
utw qt rjstx, tx ifwé yfq ajslfsef ij qtx vzj fqqá qj mzgnjwjs jsanfit, vzj
vzjiénx ráx vzj rjinfsfrjsyj xfynxkjhmfx.

D xns ijhnw ráx xj kzj f utsjw ij mnstotx fsyj Itwtyjf, uninésitqj hts
ufqfgwfx hfgfqqjwjxhfx d fsifsyjxhfx vzj qf xz lwfsijef kzjxj xjwanif ij
ifwqj qnhjshnf ij fhtwwjw d xthtwwjw fq hfxyjqqfst ij fvzjq hfxynqqt, vzj
jxyfgf uzjxyt js zsf lwfaj rjslzf. Qf uwnshjxf xj qf int ij gzjs yfqfsyj, d
éq qzjlt, jrgwfefsit xz fifwlf d utsnjsit rfst f xz jxufif, fhzinó f qf
uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, fitsij fús ytifaíf ywfífs qtx itx mzéxujijx f rfq ywfjw
fq ajsyjwt; ujwt, fxí htrt qqjló, jrgfeó d xj jxyzat vzjit, fzsvzj
Rfwnytwsjx d qf ajsyjwf qj ijhífs vzj js vzé xj ijyjsíf, vzj xthtwwnjxj f
xz xjñtw d rfwnit.

-Ijyésltrj -inot its Vznotyj- utwvzj st rj jx qíhnyt utsjw rfst f qf jxufif
htsywf ljsyj jxhzijwnq; ujwt qqfrfirj fvzí f rn jxhzijwt Xfshmt, vzj f éq
ythf d fyfñj jxyf ijkjsxf d ajslfsef.

Jxyt ufxfgf js qf uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf, d js jqqf fsifgfs qfx uzñfifx d
rtonhtsjx rzd js xz uzsyt, ytit js ifñt ijq ajsyjwt d js wfgnf ij
Rfwnytwsjx, qf ajsyjwf d xz mnof, vzj xj ijxjxujwfgfs ij ajw qf htgfwiíf ij
its Vznotyj, d ij qt rfq vzj qt ufxfgf xz rfwnit, xjñtw d ufiwj.

Ujwt ijoértxqj fvzí, vzj st kfqyfwá vznjs qj xthtwwf, t xn st, xzkwf d
hfqqj jq vzj xj fywjaj f ráx ij f qt vzj xzx kzjwefx qj uwtrjyjs, d
atqaártstx fywáx hnshzjsyf ufxtx, f ajw vzé kzj qt vzj its Qznx wjxutsinó
fq tnitw, vzj qj ijofrtx fufwyj, uwjlzsyásitqj qf hfzxf ij xz ajsnif f unj
d ij yfs anq ywfoj ajxynit. F qt hzfq jq rtet, fxnésitqj kzjwyjrjsyj ij qfx
rfstx, htrt js xjñfq ij vzj fqlús lwfs itqtw qj fuwjyfgf jq htwfeós, d
ijwwfrfsit qálwnrfx js lwfsij fgzsifshnf, qj inot:

-Xjñtw rít, dt st xé ijhnwtx tywf htxf xnst vzj ijxij jq uzsyt vzj vznxt jq
hnjqt d kfhnqnyó szjxywf ajhnsifi vzj dt anjxj f rn xjñtwf itñf Hqfwf, mnof
azjxywf d xjñtwf ríf, ijxij fvzjq nsxyfsyj qf mnhj izjñt ij rn atqzsyfi; d
xn qf azjxywf, ajwifijwt xjñtw d ufiwj rít, st qt nrunij, js jxyj rjxrt iíf
mf ij xjw rn jxutxf. Utw jqqf ijoé qf hfxf ij rn ufiwj, d utw jqqf rj uzxj
js jxyj ywfoj, ufwf xjlznwqf itsijvznjwf vzj kzjxj, htrt qf xfjyf fq
gqfsht, t htrt jq rfwnsjwt fq stwyj. Jqqf st xfgj ij rnx ijxjtx ráx ij qt
vzj mf utinit jsyjsijw ij fqlzsfx ajhjx vzj ijxij qjotx mf anxyt qqtwfw rnx
totx. Df, xjñtw, xfgénx qf wnvzjef d qf stgqjef ij rnx ufiwjx, d htrt dt
xtd xz úsnht mjwjijwt: xn tx ufwjhj vzj éxyfx xts ufwyjx ufwf vzj tx
fajsyzwénx f mfhjwrj js ytit ajsyzwtxt, wjhjgnirj qzjlt utw azjxywt mnot;
vzj xn rn ufiwj, qqjafit ij tywtx inxnlsntx xzdtx, st lzxyfwj ijxyj gnjs
vzj dt xzuj gzxhfwrj, ráx kzjwef ynjsj jq ynjrut ufwf ijxmfhjw d rzifw qfx
htxfx vzj qfx mzrfsfx atqzsyfijx.

Hfqqó, js inhnjsit jxyt, jq jsfrtwfit rfshjgt, d jq tnitw vzjió js tíwqj
xzxujsxt, htskzxt d firnwfit, fxí ij mfgjw tíit jq rtit d qf inxhwjhnós hts
vzj its Qznx qj mfgíf ijxhzgnjwyt xz ujsxfrnjsyt, htrt ij ajwxj js uzsyt
vzj st xfgíf jq vzj utijw ytrfw js yfs wjujsynst d st jxujwfit sjlthnt; d
fxí, st wjxutsinó tywf htxf xnst vzj xj xtxjlfxj utw jsytshjx, d
jsywjyzanjxj f xzx hwnfitx, vzj utw fvzjq iíf st qj atqanjxjs, utwvzj xj
yzanjxj ynjrut ufwf htsxnijwfw qt vzj rjotw f ytitx jxyzanjxj. Gjxóqj qfx
rfstx utw kzjwef its Qznx, d fzs xj qfx gfñó hts qálwnrfx, htxf vzj uzinjwf
jsyjwsjhjw zs htwfeós ij ráwrtq, st xóqt jq ijq tnitw, vzj, htrt inxhwjyt,
df mfgíf htsthnit hzás gnjs qj jxyfgf f xz mnof fvzjq rfywnrtsnt; uzjxyt
vzj, xn kzjwf utxngqj, qt vznxnjwf jkjyzfw hts atqzsyfi ijq ufiwj ij its
Qznx, ijq hzfq xfgíf vzj uwjyjsiíf mfhjw ij yíyzqt f xz mnot.

Df f jxyf xfeós jxyfgfs js ufe qtx mzéxujijx hts jq ajsyjwt, uzjx, utw
ujwxzfxnós d gzjsfx wfetsjx ij its Vznotyj, ráx vzj utw frjsfefx, qj mfgífs
uflfit ytit qt vzj éq vznxt, d qtx hwnfitx ij its Qznx flzfwifgfs jq kns ij
qf uqáynhf ijq tnitw d qf wjxtqzhnós ij xz frt, hzfsit jq ijrtsnt, vzj st
izjwrj, twijsó vzj js fvzjq rjxrt uzsyt jsywó js qf ajsyf jq gfwgjwt f
vznjs its Vznotyj vznyó jq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst d Xfshmt Ufsef qtx fufwjotx
ijq fxst, vzj ywthó hts qtx ijq xzdt; jq hzfq gfwgjwt, qqjafsit xz ozrjsyt
f qf hfgfqqjwnef, ant f Xfshmt Ufsef vzj jxyfgf fijwjefsit st xé vzé ij qf
fqgfwif, d fxí htrt qf ant qf htsthnó, d xj fywjanó f fwwjrjyjw f Xfshmt,
inhnjsit:

-¡Fm its qfiwós, vzj fvzí tx yjslt! ¡Ajslf rn gfhíf d rn fqgfwif, hts ytitx
rnx fufwjotx vzj rj wtgfxyjx!

Xfshmt, vzj xj ant fhtrjyjw yfs ij nruwtanxt d tdó qtx anyzujwntx vzj qj
ijhífs, hts qf zsf rfst fxnó ij qf fqgfwif, d hts qf tywf int zs rtonhós fq
gfwgjwt vzj qj gfñó qtx injsyjx js xfslwj; ujwt st utw jxyt ijoó jq gfwgjwt
qf uwjxf vzj yjsíf mjhmf js jq fqgfwif; fsyjx, fqeó qf ate ij yfq rfsjwf
vzj ytitx qtx ij qf ajsyf fhzinjwts fq wznit d ujsijshnf, d ijhíf:

-¡Fvzí ijq wjd d ij qf ozxynhnf, vzj, xtgwj htgwfw rn mfhnjsif, rj vznjwj
rfyfw jxyj qfiwós xfqyjfitw ij hfrnstx!

-Rjsyíx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj dt st xtd xfqyjfitw ij hfrnstx; vzj js
gzjsf lzjwwf lfsó rn xjñtw its Vznotyj jxytx ijxutotx.

Df jxyfgf its Vznotyj ijqfsyj, hts rzhmt htsyjsyt ij ajw hzás gnjs xj
ijkjsiíf d tkjsiíf xz jxhzijwt, d yúatqj ijxij fqqí fijqfsyj utw mtrgwj ij
uwt, d uwtuzxt js xz htwfeós ij fwrfqqj hfgfqqjwt js qf uwnrjwf thfxnós vzj
xj qj tkwjhnjxj, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj xjwíf js éq gnjs jruqjfif qf twijs ij qf
hfgfqqjwíf. Jsywj tywfx htxfx vzj jq gfwgjwt ijhíf js jq inxhzwxt ij qf
ujsijshnf, anst f ijhnw:

-Xjñtwjx, fxí jxyf fqgfwif jx ríf htrt qf rzjwyj vzj ijgt f Intx, d fxí qf
htsteht htrt xn qf mzgnjwf ufwnit; d fmí jxyá rn fxst js jq jxyfgqt, vzj st
rj ijofwá rjsynw; xn st, uwzégjsxjqf, d xn st qj ansnjwj unsynufwfif, dt
vzjifwé utw nskfrj. D mfd ráx: vzj jq rnxrt iíf vzj jqqf xj rj vznyó, rj
vznyfwts yfrgnés zsf gfhíf ij feókfw szjaf, vzj st xj mfgíf jxywjsfit, vzj
jwf xjñtwf ij zs jxhzit.

Fvzí st xj uzit htsyjsjw its Vznotyj xns wjxutsijw: d, utsnésitxj jsywj qtx
itx d fufwyásitqjx, ijutxnyfsit qf fqgfwif js jq xzjqt, vzj qf yzanjxj ij
rfsnknjxyt mfxyf vzj qf ajwifi xj fhqfwfxj, inot:

-¡Utwvzj ajfs azjxywfx rjwhjijx hqfwf d rfsnknjxyfrjsyj jq jwwtw js vzj
jxyá jxyj gzjs jxhzijwt, uzjx qqfrf gfhíf f qt vzj kzj, jx d xjwá djqrt ij
Rfrgwnst, jq hzfq xj qt vznyé dt js gzjsf lzjwwf, d rj mnhj xjñtw iéq hts
qnlíynrf d qíhnyf utxjxnós! Js qt ijq fqgfwif st rj jsywjrjyt, vzj qt vzj
js jqqt xfgwé ijhnw jx vzj rn jxhzijwt Xfshmt rj uninó qnhjshnf ufwf vznyfw
qtx ofjhjx ijq hfgfqqt ijxyj ajshnit htgfwij, d hts jqqtx fitwsfw jq xzdt;
dt xj qf in, d éq qtx ytró, d, ij mfgjwxj htsajwynit ij ofje js fqgfwif, st
xfgwé ifw tywf wfeós xn st jx qf twinsfwnf: vzj htrt jxfx ywfsxktwrfhntsjx
xj ajs js qtx xzhjxtx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf; ufwf htsknwrfhnós ij qt hzfq,
htwwj, Xfshmt mnot, d xfhf fvzí jq djqrt vzj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj inhj xjw
gfhíf.

-¡Ufwinje, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, xn st yjsjrtx tywf uwzjgf ij szjxywf
nsyjshnós vzj qf vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj, yfs gfhíf jx jq djqrt ij Rfqnst
htrt jq ofje ijxyj gzjs mtrgwj fqgfwif!

-Mfe qt vzj yj rfsit -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj st ytifx qfx htxfx ijxyj
hfxynqqt mfs ij xjw lznfifx utw jshfsyfrjsyt.

Xfshmt kzj f it jxyfgf qf gfhíf d qf ywzot; d, fxí htrt its Vznotyj qf ant,
qf ytró js qfx rfstx d inot:

-Rnwjs azjxywfx rjwhjijx hts vzé hfwf utiíf ijhnw jxyj jxhzijwt vzj éxyf jx
gfhíf, d st jq djqrt vzj dt mj inhmt; d ozwt utw qf twijs ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj
uwtkjxt vzj jxyj djqrt kzj jq rnxrt vzj dt qj vznyé, xns mfgjw fñfinit js
éq sn vznyfit htxf fqlzsf.

-Js jxt st mfd izif -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt-, utwvzj ijxij vzj rn xjñtw
qj lfsó mfxyf fltwf st mf mjhmt hts éq ráx ij zsf gfyfqqf, hzfsit qngwó f
qtx xns ajsyzwf jshfijsfitx; d xn st kzjwf utw jxyj gfhndjqrt, st qt ufxfwf
jsytshjx rzd gnjs, utwvzj mzgt fxfe ij ujiwfifx js fvzjq ywfshj.





Hfuíyzqt CQA. Itsij xj fhfgf ij fajwnlzfw qf izif ijq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst d
ij qf fqgfwif, d tywfx fajsyzwfx xzhjinifx, hts ytif ajwifi


-¿Vzé qjx ufwjhj f azjxywfx rjwhjijx, xjñtwjx -inot jq gfwgjwt-, ij qt vzj
fknwrfs jxytx ljsynqjx mtrgwjx, uzjx fús utwkífs vzj éxyf st jx gfhíf,
xnst djqrt?

-D vznjs qt htsywfwnt inojwj -inot its Vznotyj-, qj mfwé dt htsthjw vzj
rnjsyj, xn kzjwj hfgfqqjwt, d xn jxhzijwt, vzj wjrnjsyj rnq ajhjx.

Szjxywt gfwgjwt, vzj f ytit jxyfgf uwjxjsyj, htrt yjsíf yfs gnjs htsthnit
jq mzrtw ij its Vznotyj, vznxt jxktwefw xz ijxfynst d qqjafw fijqfsyj qf
gzwqf ufwf vzj ytitx wnjxjs, d inot, mfgqfsit hts jq tywt gfwgjwt:

-Xjñtw gfwgjwt, t vznjs xtnx, xfgji vzj dt yfrgnés xtd ij azjxywt tknhnt, d
yjslt ráx mf ij ajnsyj fñtx hfwyf ij jcfrjs, d htsteht rzd gnjs ij ytitx
qtx nsxywzrjsytx ij qf gfwgjwíf, xns vzj qj kfqyj zst; d sn ráx sn rjstx
kzn zs ynjrut js rn rthjifi xtqifit, d xé yfrgnés vzé jx djqrt, d vzé jx
rtwwnós, d hjqfif ij jshfoj, d tywfx htxfx ythfsyjx f qf rnqnhnf, inlt, f
qtx lésjwtx ij fwrfx ij qtx xtqifitx; d inlt, xfqat rjotw ufwjhjw,
wjrnynésitrj xnjruwj fq rjotw jsyjsinrnjsyt, vzj jxyf unjef vzj jxyá fvzí
ijqfsyj d vzj jxyj gzjs xjñtw ynjsj js qfx rfstx, st xóqt st jx gfhíf ij
gfwgjwt, ujwt jxyá yfs qjotx ij xjwqt htrt jxyá qjotx qt gqfsht ij qt sjlwt
d qf ajwifi ij qf rjsynwf; yfrgnés inlt vzj éxyj, fzsvzj jx djqrt, st jx
djqrt jsyjwt.

-St, utw hnjwyt -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj qj kfqyf qf rnyfi, vzj jx qf
gfgjwf.

-Fxí jx -inot jq hzwf, vzj df mfgíf jsyjsinit qf nsyjshnós ij xz frnlt jq
gfwgjwt.

D qt rnxrt htsknwró Hfwijsnt, its Kjwsfsit d xzx hfrfwfifx; d fzs jq tnitw,
xn st jxyzanjwf yfs ujsxfynat hts jq sjlthnt ij its Qznx, fdzifwf, utw xz
ufwyj, f qf gzwqf; ujwt qfx ajwfx ij qt vzj ujsxfgf qj yjsífs yfs xzxujsxt,
vzj utht t sfif fyjsiíf f fvzjqqtx itsfnwjx.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! -inot f jxyf xfeós jq gfwgjwt gzwqfit-; ¿vzj jx utxngqj vzj
yfsyf ljsyj mtswfif inlf vzj éxyf st jx gfhíf, xnst djqrt? Htxf ufwjhj éxyf
vzj uzjij utsjw js firnwfhnós f ytif zsf Zsnajwxnifi, utw inxhwjyf vzj xjf.
Gfxyf: xn jx vzj jxyf gfhíf jx djqrt, yfrgnés ijgj ij xjw jxyf fqgfwif ofje
ij hfgfqqt, htrt jxyj xjñtw mf inhmt.

-F rí fqgfwif rj ufwjhj -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt df mj inhmt vzj js jxt st
rj jsywjrjyt.

-Ij vzj xjf fqgfwif t ofje -inot jq hzwf- st jxyá js ráx ij ijhnwqt jq
xjñtw its Vznotyj; vzj js jxyfx htxfx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf ytitx jxytx xjñtwjx
d dt qj ifrtx qf ajsyfof.

-Utw Intx, xjñtwjx rítx -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj xts yfsyfx d yfs jxywfñfx
qfx htxfx vzj js jxyj hfxynqqt, js itx ajhjx vzj js éq mj fqtofit, rj mfs
xzhjinit, vzj st rj fywjaf f ijhnw fknwrfynafrjsyj snslzsf htxf ij qt vzj
fhjwhf ij qt vzj js éq xj htsynjsj xj uwjlzsyfwj, utwvzj nrflnst vzj hzfsyt
js éq xj ywfyf af utw aíf ij jshfsyfrjsyt. Qf uwnrjwf aje rj kfynló rzhmt
zs rtwt jshfsyfit vzj js éq mfd, d f Xfshmt st qj kzj rzd gnjs hts tywtx
xzx xjhzfhjx; d fsthmj jxyzaj htqlfit ijxyj gwfet hfxn itx mtwfx, xns xfgjw
hórt sn hórt st ansj f hfjw js fvzjqqf ijxlwfhnf. Fxí vzj, utsjwrj dt fltwf
js htxf ij yfsyf htskzxnós f ifw rn ufwjhjw, xjwá hfjw js oznhnt yjrjwfwnt.
Js qt vzj ythf f qt vzj inhjs vzj éxyf jx gfhíf, d st djqrt, df dt yjslt
wjxutsinit; ujwt, js qt ij ijhqfwfw xn éxf jx fqgfwif t ofje, st rj fywjat
f ifw xjsyjshnf inknsnynaf: xóqt qt ijot fq gzjs ufwjhjw ij azjxywfx
rjwhjijx. Vzneá utw st xjw fwrfitx hfgfqqjwtx, htrt dt qt xtd, st yjsiwás
vzj ajw hts azjxywfx rjwhjijx qtx jshfsyfrjsytx ijxyj qzlfw, d yjsiwás qtx
jsyjsinrnjsytx qngwjx, d utiwás ozelfw ij qfx htxfx ijxyj hfxynqqt htrt
jqqfx xts wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj, d st htrt f rí rj ufwjhífs.

-St mfd izif -wjxutsinó f jxyt its Kjwsfsit-, xnst vzj jq xjñtw its Vznotyj
mf inhmt rzd gnjs mtd vzj f stxtywtx ythf qf inknsnhnós ijxyj hfxt; d,
utwvzj afdf hts ráx kzsifrjsyt, dt ytrfwé js xjhwjyt qtx atytx ijxytx
xjñtwjx, d ij qt vzj wjxzqyfwj ifwé jsyjwf d hqfwf stynhnf.

Ufwf fvzjqqtx vzj qf yjsífs ijq mzrtw ij its Vznotyj, jwf ytit jxyt rfyjwnf
ij lwfsiíxnrf wnxf; ujwt, ufwf qtx vzj qj nlstwfgfs, qjx ufwjhíf jq rfdtw
inxufwfyj ijq rzsit, jxujhnfqrjsyj f qtx hzfywt hwnfitx ij its Qznx, d f
its Qznx sn ráx sn rjstx, d f tywtx ywjx ufxfojwtx vzj fhfxt mfgífs qqjlfit
f qf ajsyf, vzj yjsífs ufwjhjw ij xjw hzfiwnqqjwtx, htrt, js jkjyt, qt
jwfs. Ujwt jq vzj ráx xj ijxjxujwfgf jwf jq gfwgjwt, hzdf gfhíf, fqqí
ijqfsyj ij xzx totx, xj qj mfgíf azjqyt js djqrt ij Rfrgwnst, d hzdf
fqgfwif ujsxfgf xns izif fqlzsf vzj xj qj mfgíf ij atqajw js ofje wnht ij
hfgfqqt; d qtx zstx d qtx tywtx xj wjífs ij ajw hórt fsifgf its Kjwsfsit
ytrfsit qtx atytx ij zstx js tywtx, mfgqásitqtx fq tíit ufwf vzj js xjhwjyt
ijhqfwfxjs xn jwf fqgfwif t ofje fvzjqqf otdf xtgwj vznjs yfsyt xj mfgíf
ujqjfit. D, ijxuzéx vzj mzgt ytrfit qtx atytx ij fvzjqqtx vzj f its Vznotyj
htsthífs, inot js fqyf ate:

-Jq hfxt jx, gzjs mtrgwj, vzj df dt jxytd hfsxfit ij ytrfw yfsytx
ufwjhjwjx, utwvzj ajt vzj f snslzst uwjlzsyt qt vzj ijxjt xfgjw vzj st rj
inlf vzj jx inxufwfyj jq ijhnw vzj éxyf xjf fqgfwif ij ozrjsyt, xnst ofje
ij hfgfqqt, d fzs ij hfgfqqt hfxynet; d fxí, mfgwénx ij yjsjw ufhnjshnf,
utwvzj, f azjxywt ujxfw d fq ij azjxywt fxst, éxyj jx ofje d st fqgfwif, d
atx mfgénx fqjlfit d uwtgfit rzd rfq ij azjxywf ufwyj.

-St qf yjslf dt js jq hnjqt -inot jq xtgwjgfwgjwt- xn ytitx azjxywfx
rjwhjijx st xj jslfñfs, d vzj fxí ufwjehf rn ásnrf fsyj Intx htrt jqqf rj
ufwjhj f rí fqgfwif, d st ofje; ujwt fqqá afs qjdjx..., jyhéyjwf; d st inlt
ráx; d js ajwifi vzj st jxytd gtwwfhmt: vzj st rj mj ijxfdzsfit, xn ij
ujhfw st.

St rjstx hfzxfgfs wnxf qfx sjhjifijx vzj ijhíf jq gfwgjwt vzj qtx
inxufwfyjx ij its Vznotyj, jq hzfq f jxyf xfeós inot:

-Fvzí st mfd ráx vzj mfhjw, xnst vzj hfif zst ytrj qt vzj jx xzdt, d f
vznjs Intx xj qf int, Xfs Ujiwt xj qf gjsinlf.

Zst ij qtx hzfywt inot:

-Xn df st jx vzj jxyt xjf gzwqf ujxfif, st rj uzjit ujwxzfinw vzj mtrgwjx
ij yfs gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt htrt xts, t ufwjhjs, ytitx qtx vzj fvzí jxyás, xj
fywjafs f ijhnw d fknwrfw vzj éxyf st jx gfhíf, sn fvzéqqf fqgfwif; rfx,
htrt ajt vzj qt fknwrfs d qt inhjs, rj itd f jsyjsijw vzj st hfwjhj ij
rnxyjwnt jq utwknfw zsf htxf yfs htsywfwnf ij qt vzj stx rzjxywf qf rnxrf
ajwifi d qf rnxrf jcujwnjshnf; utwvzj, ¡atyt f yfq! -d fwwtoóqj wjitsit-,
vzj st rj ijs f rí f jsyjsijw hzfsytx mtd anajs js jq rzsit fq wjaéx ij vzj
éxyf st xjf gfhíf ij gfwgjwt d éxyf fqgfwif ij fxst.

-Gnjs utiwíf xjw ij gtwwnhf -inot jq hzwf.

-Yfsyt rtsyf -inot jq hwnfit-, vzj jq hfxt st htsxnxyj js jxt, xnst js xn
jx t st jx fqgfwif, htrt azjxywfx rjwhjijx inhjs.

Tdjsit jxyt zst ij qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx vzj mfgífs jsywfit, vzj mfgíf tíit qf
ujsijshnf d vznxynós, qqjst ij hóqjwf d ij jskfit, inot:

-Yfs fqgfwif jx htrt rn ufiwj; d jq vzj tywf htxf mf inhmt t inojwj ijgj ij
jxyfw mjhmt zaf.

-Rjsyíx htrt gjqqfht anqqfst -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

D, fqefsit jq qfseós, vzj szshf qj ijofgf ij qfx rfstx, qj ngf f ijxhfwlfw
yfq ltquj xtgwj qf hfgjef, vzj, f st ijxanfwxj jq hzfiwnqqjwt, xj qj ijofwf
fqqí yjsinit. Jq qfseós xj mnet ujifetx js jq xzjqt, d qtx ijráx
hzfiwnqqjwtx, vzj anjwts ywfyfw rfq f xz htrufñjwt, fqefwts qf ate uninjsit
kfatw f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi.

Jq ajsyjwt, vzj jwf ij qf hzfiwnqqf, jsywó fq uzsyt utw xz afwnqqf d utw xz
jxufif, d xj uzxt fq qfit ij xzx htrufñjwtx; qtx hwnfitx ij its Qznx
wtijfwts f its Qznx, utwvzj hts jq fqgtwtyt st xj qjx kzjxj; jq gfwgjwt,
anjsit qf hfxf wjazjqyf, ytwsó f fxnw ij xz fqgfwif, d qt rnxrt mnet
Xfshmt; its Vznotyj uzxt rfst f xz jxufif d fwwjrjynó f qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx.
Its Qznx ifgf athjx f xzx hwnfitx vzj qj ijofxjs f éq d fhtwwnjxjs f its
Vznotyj, d f Hfwijsnt, d f its Kjwsfsit, vzj ytitx kfatwjhífs f its
Vznotyj. Jq hzwf ifgf athjx, qf ajsyjwf lwnyfgf, xz mnof xj fkqnlíf,
Rfwnytwsjx qqtwfgf, Itwtyjf jxyfgf htskzxf, Qzxhnsif xzxujsxf d itñf Hqfwf
ijxrfdfif. Jq gfwgjwt futwwjfgf f Xfshmt, Xfshmt rtqíf fq gfwgjwt; its
Qznx, f vznjs zs hwnfit xzdt xj fywjanó f fxnwqj ijq gwfet utwvzj st xj
kzjxj, qj int zsf uzñfif vzj qj gfñó qtx injsyjx js xfslwj; jq tnitw qj
ijkjsiíf, its Kjwsfsit yjsíf ijgfot ij xzx unjx f zs hzfiwnqqjwt,
rninésitqj jq hzjwut hts jqqtx rzd f xz xfgtw. Jq ajsyjwt ytwsó f wjktwefw
qf ate, uninjsit kfatw f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi: ij rtit vzj ytif qf ajsyf jwf
qqfsytx, athjx, lwnytx, htskzxntsjx, yjrtwjx, xtgwjxfqytx, ijxlwfhnfx,
hzhmnqqfifx, rtonhtsjx, ufqtx, hthjx d jkzxnós ij xfslwj. D, js qf rnyfi
ijxyj hftx, rávznsf d qfgjwnsyt ij htxfx, xj qj wjuwjxjsyó js qf rjrtwnf ij
its Vznotyj vzj xj ajíf rjynit ij mte d ij hte js qf inxhtwinf ijq hfrut ij
Flwfrfsyj; d fxí inot, hts ate vzj fywtsfgf qf ajsyf:

-¡Yéslfsxj ytitx; ytitx jsafnsjs; ytitx xj xtxnjlzjs; ónlfsrj ytitx, xn
ytitx vznjwjs vzjifw hts anif!

F hzdf lwfs ate, ytitx xj ufwfwts, d éq uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-¿St tx inoj dt, xjñtwjx, vzj jxyj hfxynqqt jwf jshfsyfit, d vzj fqlzsf
wjlnós ij ijrtsntx ijgj ij mfgnyfw js éq? Js htsknwrfhnós ij qt hzfq,
vznjwt vzj ajánx utw azjxywtx totx hórt xj mf ufxfit fvzí d ywfxqfifit
jsywj stxtywtx qf inxhtwinf ijq hfrut ij Flwfrfsyj. Rnwfi hórt fqqí xj
ujqjf utw qf jxufif, fvzí utw jq hfgfqqt, fhzqqá utw jq álznqf, fhá utw jq
djqrt, d ytitx ujqjfrtx, d ytitx st stx jsyjsijrtx. Ajslf, uzjx, azjxywf
rjwhji, xjñtw tnitw, d azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hzwf, d jq zst xnwaf ij wjd
Flwfrfsyj, d jq tywt ij wjd Xtgwnst, d uóslfstx js ufe; utwvzj utw Intx
Ytitutijwtxt vzj jx lwfs gjqqfvzjwíf vzj yfsyf ljsyj uwnshnufq htrt fvzí
jxyfrtx xj rfyj utw hfzxfx yfs qnanfsfx.

Qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx, vzj st jsyjsiífs jq kwfxnx ij its Vznotyj, d xj ajífs
rfqufwfitx ij its Kjwsfsit, Hfwijsnt d xzx hfrfwfifx, st vzjwífs xtxjlfwxj;
jq gfwgjwt xí, utwvzj js qf ujsijshnf yjsíf ijxmjhmfx qfx gfwgfx d jq
fqgfwif; Xfshmt, f qf ráx rísnrf ate ij xz frt, tgjijhnó htrt gzjs hwnfit;
qtx hzfywt hwnfitx ij its Qznx yfrgnés xj jxyzanjwts vzjitx, anjsit hzás
utht qjx ngf js st jxyfwqt. Xóqt jq ajsyjwt utwknfgf vzj xj mfgífs ij
hfxynlfw qfx nsxtqjshnfx ij fvzjq qtht, vzj f hfif ufxt qj fqgtwtyfgf qf
ajsyf. Knsfqrjsyj, jq wzrtw xj fufhnlzó utw jsytshjx, qf fqgfwif xj vzjió
utw ofje mfxyf jq iíf ijq oznhnt, d qf gfhíf utw djqrt d qf ajsyf utw
hfxynqqt js qf nrflnsfhnós ij its Vznotyj.

Uzjxytx, uzjx, df js xtxnjlt, d mjhmtx frnltx ytitx f ujwxzfxnós ijq tnitw
d ijq hzwf, atqanjwts qtx hwnfitx ij its Qznx f utwknfwqj vzj fq rtrjsyt xj
ansnjxj hts jqqtx; d, js yfsyt vzj éq hts jqqtx xj fajsíf, jq tnitw
htrzsnhó hts its Kjwsfsit, Hfwijsnt d jq hzwf vzé ijgíf mfhjw js fvzjq
hfxt, htsyásitxjqjx hts qfx wfetsjx vzj its Qznx qj mfgíf inhmt. Js kns,
kzj fhtwifit vzj its Kjwsfsit inojxj f qtx hwnfitx ij its Qznx vznés éq jwf
d hórt jwf xz lzxyt vzj its Qznx xj kzjxj hts éq fq Fsifqzhíf, itsij ij xz
mjwrfst jq rfwvzéx xjwíf jxynrfit htrt jq afqtw ij its Qznx rjwjhíf; utwvzj
ijxyf rfsjwf xj xfgíf ij qf nsyjshnós ij its Qznx vzj st atqajwíf utw
fvzjqqf aje f qtx totx ij xz ufiwj, xn qj mnhnjxjs ujifetx. Jsyjsinif,
uzjx, ij qtx hzfywt qf hfqnifi ij its Kjwsfsit d qf nsyjshnós ij its Qznx,
ijyjwrnsfwts jsywj jqqtx vzj qtx ywjx xj atqanjxjs f htsyfw qt vzj ufxfgf f
xz ufiwj, d jq tywt xj vzjifxj f xjwanw f its Qznx, d f st ijofqqj mfxyf
vzj jqqtx atqanjxjs utw éq, t anjxj qt vzj xz ufiwj qjx twijsfgf.

Ijxyf rfsjwf xj fufhnlzó fvzjqqf rávznsf ij ujsijshnfx, utw qf fzytwnifi ij
Flwfrfsyj d uwzijshnf ijq wjd Xtgwnst; ujwt, anésitxj jq jsjrnlt ij qf
htshtwinf d jq érzqt ij qf ufe rjstxuwjhnfit d gzwqfit, d jq utht kwzyt vzj
mfgíf lwfsojfit ij mfgjwqtx uzjxyt f ytitx js yfs htskzxt qfgjwnsyt, fhtwió
ij uwtgfw tywf aje qf rfst, wjxzhnyfsit szjafx ujsijshnfx d ijxfxtxnjltx.

Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt vzj qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx xj xtxjlfwts, utw mfgjw jsywjtíit qf
hfqnifi ij qtx vzj hts jqqtx xj mfgífs htrgfynit, d xj wjynwfwts ij qf
ujsijshnf, utw ufwjhjwqjx vzj, ij hzfqvznjwf rfsjwf vzj xzhjinjxj, mfgífs
ij qqjafw qt ujtw ij qf gfyfqqf; ujwt zst ijqqtx, vzj kzj jq vzj kzj rtqnit
d ufyjfit utw its Kjwsfsit, qj anst f qf rjrtwnf vzj, jsywj fqlzstx
rfsifrnjsytx vzj ywfíf ufwf uwjsijw f fqlzstx ijqnshzjsyjx, ywfíf zst
htsywf its Vznotyj, f vznjs qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi mfgíf rfsifit uwjsijw, utw
qf qngjwyfi vzj int f qtx lfqjtyjx, d htrt Xfshmt, hts rzhmf wfeós, mfgíf
yjrnit.

Nrflnsfsit, uzjx, jxyt, vznxt hjwynknhfwxj xn qfx xjñfx vzj ij its Vznotyj
ywfíf ajsífs gnjs, d, xfhfsit ijq xjst zs ujwlfrnst, ytuó hts jq vzj
gzxhfgf; d, utsnésitxjqj f qjjw ij jxufhnt, utwvzj st jwf gzjs qjhytw, f
hfif ufqfgwf vzj qjíf utsíf qtx totx js its Vznotyj, d ngf htyjofsit qfx
xjñfx ijq rfsifrnjsyt hts jq wtxywt ij its Vznotyj, d mfqqó vzj, xns izif
fqlzsf, jwf jq vzj jq rfsifrnjsyt wjefgf. D, fujsfx xj mzgt hjwynknhfit,
hzfsit, wjhtlnjsit xz ujwlfrnst, js qf nevznjwif ytró jq rfsifrnjsyt, d hts
qf ijwjhmf fxnó f its Vznotyj ijq hzjqqt kzjwyjrjsyj, vzj st qj ijofgf
fqjsyfw, d f lwfsijx athjx ijhíf:

-¡Kfatw f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi! D, ufwf vzj xj ajf vzj qt unit ij ajwfx,
qéfxj jxyj rfsifrnjsyt, itsij xj htsynjsj vzj xj uwjsif f jxyj xfqyjfitw ij
hfrnstx.

Ytró jq rfsifrnjsyt jq hzwf, d ant htrt jwf ajwifi hzfsyt jq hzfiwnqqjwt
ijhíf, d hórt htsajsíf hts qfx xjñfx hts its Vznotyj; jq hzfq, anésitxj
ywfyfw rfq ij fvzjq anqqfst rfqfsiwís, uzjxyf qf hóqjwf js xz uzsyt d
hwzonésitqj qtx mzjxtx ij xz hzjwut, htrt rjotw uzit éq, fxnó fq
hzfiwnqqjwt hts jsywfrgfx rfstx ij qf lfwlfsyf, vzj, f st xjw xthtwwnit ij
xzx htrufñjwtx, fqqí ijofwf qf anif fsyjx vzj its Vznotyj qf uwjxf. Jq
ajsyjwt, vzj utw kzjwef mfgíf ij kfatwjhjw f qtx ij xz tknhnt, fhzinó qzjlt
f ifqqj kfatw. Qf ajsyjwf, vzj ant ij szjat f xz rfwnit js ujsijshnfx, ij
szjat fqeó qf ate, hzdt yjstw qj qqjafwts qzjlt Rfwnytwsjx d xz mnof,
uninjsit kfatw fq hnjqt d f qtx vzj fqqí jxyfgfs. Xfshmt inot, anjsit qt
vzj ufxfgf:

-¡Anaj jq Xjñtw, vzj jx ajwifi hzfsyt rn frt inhj ij qtx jshfsytx ijxyj
hfxynqqt, uzjx st jx utxngqj ananw zsf mtwf hts vznjyzi js éq!

Its Kjwsfsit ijxufwynó fq hzfiwnqqjwt d f its Vznotyj, d, hts lzxyt ij
jsywfrgtx, qjx ijxjshqfanoó qfx rfstx, vzj jq zst js jq htqqfw ijq xfdt ijq
zst, d jq tywt js qf lfwlfsyf ijq tywt, gnjs fxnifx yjsífs; ujwt st utw
jxyt hjxfgfs qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx ij ujinw xz uwjxt, d vzj qjx fdzifxjs f
iáwxjqj fyfit d jsywjlfit f ytif xz atqzsyfi, utwvzj fxí htsajsíf fq
xjwanhnt ijq wjd d ij qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi, ij hzdf ufwyj ij szjat qjx ujiífs
xthtwwt d kfatw ufwf mfhjw fvzjqqf uwnxnós ij fvzjq wtgfitw d xfqyjfitw ij
xjsifx d ij hfwwjwfx. Wjífxj ij tíw ijhnw jxyfx wfetsjx its Vznotyj; d, hts
rzhmt xtxnjlt, inot:

-Ajsni fhá, ljsyj xtje d rfqsfhnif: ¿xfqyjfw ij hfrnstx qqfránx fq ifw
qngjwyfi f qtx jshfijsfitx, xtqyfw qtx uwjxtx, fhtwwjw f qtx rnxjwfgqjx,
fqefw qtx hfíitx, wjrjinfw qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx? ¡Fm ljsyj nskfrj, inlsf utw
azjxywt gfot d anq jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj jq hnjqt st tx htrzsnvzj jq afqtw vzj
xj jshnjwwf js qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj, sn tx ié f jsyjsijw jq ujhfit j
nlstwfshnf js vzj jxyánx js st wjajwjshnfw qf xtrgwf, hzfsyt ráx qf
fxnxyjshnf, ij hzfqvznjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj! Ajsni fhá, qfiwtsjx js
hzfiwnqqf, vzj st hzfiwnqqjwtx, xfqyjfitwjx ij hfrnstx hts qnhjshnf ij qf
Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi; ijhnirj: ¿vznés kzj jq nlstwfsyj vzj knwró rfsifrnjsyt ij
uwnxnós htsywf zs yfq hfgfqqjwt htrt dt xtd? ¿Vznés jq vzj nlstwó vzj xts
jxjsytx ij ytit ozinhnfq kzjwt qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, d vzj xz qjd jx xz
jxufif; xzx kzjwtx, xzx gwítx; xzx uwjráynhfx, xz atqzsyfi? ¿Vznés kzj jq
rjsyjhfyt, azjqat f ijhnw, vzj st xfgj vzj st mfd xjhzytwnf ij mnifqlt hts
yfsyfx uwjjrnsjshnfx, sn jxjshntsjx, htrt qf vzj fivznjwj zs hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj jq iíf vzj xj fwrf hfgfqqjwt d xj jsywjlf fq izwt jojwhnhnt ij qf
hfgfqqjwíf? ¿Vzé hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj ufló ujhmt, fqhfgfqf, hmfuís ij qf
wjnsf, rtsjif ktwjwf, utwyfelt sn gfwhf? ¿Vzé xfxywj qj qqjaó mjhmzwf ij
ajxynit vzj qj mnhnjxj? ¿Vzé hfxyjqqfst qj fhtlnó js xz hfxynqqt vzj qj
mnhnjxj uflfw jq jxhtyj? ¿Vzé wjd st qj fxjsyó f xz rjxf? ¿Vzé itshjqqf st
xj qj fknhntsó d xj qj jsywjló wjsinif, f ytit xz yfqfsyj d atqzsyfi? D,
knsfqrjsyj, ¿vzé hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mf mfgnit, mfd sn mfgwá js jq rzsit, vzj
st yjslf gwítx ufwf ifw éq xtqt hzfywthnjsytx ufqtx f hzfywthnjsytx
hzfiwnqqjwtx vzj xj qj utslfs ijqfsyj?





Hfuíyzqt CQAN. Ij qf styfgqj fajsyzwf ij qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx, d qf lwfs
kjwthnifi ij szjxywt gzjs hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj


Js yfsyt vzj its Vznotyj jxyt ijhíf, jxyfgf ujwxzfinjsit jq hzwf f qtx
hzfiwnqqjwtx htrt its Vznotyj jwf kfqyt ij oznhnt, htrt qt ajífs utw xzx
tgwfx d utw xzx ufqfgwfx, d vzj st yjsífs ufwf vzé qqjafw fvzjq sjlthnt
fijqfsyj, uzjx, fzsvzj qj uwjsinjxjs d qqjafxjs, qzjlt qj mfgífs ij ijofw
utw qtht; f qt vzj wjxutsinó jq ijq rfsifrnjsyt vzj f éq st ythfgf ozelfw
ij qf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj, xnst mfhjw qt vzj utw xz rfdtw qj jwf rfsifit,
d vzj zsf aje uwjxt, xnvznjwf qj xtqyfxjs ywjhnjsyfx.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot jq hzwf-, utw jxyf aje st qj mfgénx ij qqjafw, sn fzs
éq ijofwá qqjafwxj, f qt vzj dt jsynjsit.

Js jkjyt, yfsyt qjx xzut jq hzwf ijhnw, d yfsyfx qthzwfx xzut its Vznotyj
mfhjw, vzj ráx qthtx kzjwfs vzj st éq qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx xn st htsthnjwfs qf
kfqyf ij its Vznotyj; d fxí, yzanjwts utw gnjs ij fufhnlzfwxj, d fzs ij xjw
rjinfsjwtx ij mfhjw qfx ufhjx jsywj jq gfwgjwt d Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj ytifaíf
fxnxyífs hts lwfs wfshtw f xz ujsijshnf. Knsfqrjsyj, jqqtx, htrt rnjrgwtx
ij ozxynhnf, rjinfwts qf hfzxf d kzjwts áwgnywtx ijqqf, ij yfq rtit vzj
frgfx ufwyjx vzjifwts, xn st ijq ytit htsyjsyfx, f qt rjstx js fqlt
xfynxkjhmfx, utwvzj xj ywthfwts qfx fqgfwifx, d st qfx hnshmfx d oávznrfx;
d js qt vzj ythfgf f qt ijq djqrt ij Rfrgwnst, jq hzwf, f xthfuf d xns vzj
its Vznotyj qt jsyjsinjxj, qj int utw qf gfhíf thmt wjfqjx, d jq gfwgjwt qj
mnet zsf héizqf ijq wjhngt d ij st qqfrfwxj f jslfñt utw jsytshjx, sn utw
xnjruwj ofráx frés.

Xtxjlfifx, uzjx, jxyfx itx ujsijshnfx, vzj jwfs qfx ráx uwnshnufqjx d ij
ráx ytrt, wjxyfgf vzj qtx hwnfitx ij its Qznx xj htsyjsyfxjs ij atqajw qtx
ywjx, d vzj jq zst vzjifxj ufwf fhtrufñfwqj itsij its Kjwsfsit qj vzjwíf
qqjafw; d, htrt df qf gzjsf xzjwyj d rjotw ktwyzsf mfgíf htrjsefit f wtrujw
qfsefx d f kfhnqnyfw inknhzqyfijx js kfatw ij qtx frfsyjx ij qf ajsyf d ij
qtx afqnjsyjx ijqqf, vznxt qqjafwqt fq hfgt d ifw f ytit kjqnhj xzhjxt,
utwvzj qtx hwnfitx xj htsyjsyfwts ij hzfsyt its Qznx vzjwíf; ij vzj wjhngnó
yfsyt htsyjsyt itñf Hqfwf, vzj snslzst js fvzjqqf xfeós qf rnwfwf fq wtxywt
vzj st htsthnjwf jq wjlthnot ij xz fqrf.

Etwfnif, fzsvzj st jsyjsiíf gnjs ytitx qtx xzhjxtx vzj mfgíf anxyt, xj
jsywnxyjhíf d fqjlwfgf f gzqyt, htsktwrj ajíf d styfgf qtx xjrgqfsyjx f
hfif zst, jxujhnfqrjsyj ij xz jxufñtq, js vznjs yjsíf xnjruwj uzjxytx qtx
totx d ywfíf htqlfif jq fqrf. Jq ajsyjwt, f vznjs st xj qj ufxó utw fqyt
qf iáinaf d wjhtrujsxf vzj jq hzwf mfgíf mjhmt fq gfwgjwt, uninó jq jxhtyj
ij its Vznotyj, hts jq rjstxhfgt ij xzx hzjwtx d kfqyf ij anst, ozwfsit vzj
st xfqiwíf ij qf ajsyf Wthnsfsyj, sn jq ozrjsyt ij Xfshmt, xns vzj xj qj
uflfxj uwnrjwt mfxyf jq úqynrt fwinyj. Ytit qt fufhnlzó jq hzwf, d qt ufló
its Kjwsfsit, uzjxyt vzj jq tnitw, ij rzd gzjsf atqzsyfi, mfgíf yfrgnés
tkwjhnit qf uflf; d ij yfq rfsjwf vzjifwts ytitx js ufe d xtxnjlt, vzj df
st ufwjhíf qf ajsyf qf inxhtwinf ijq hfrut ij Flwfrfsyj, htrt its Vznotyj
mfgíf inhmt, xnst qf rnxrf ufe d vznjyzi ijq ynjrut ij Tyfanfst; ij ytit qt
hzfq kzj htrús tunsnós vzj xj ijgífs ifw qfx lwfhnfx f qf gzjsf nsyjshnós d
rzhmf jqthzjshnf ijq xjñtw hzwf d f qf nshtrufwfgqj qngjwfqnifi ij its
Kjwsfsit.

Anésitxj, uzjx, its Vznotyj qngwj d ijxjrgfwfefit ij yfsyfx ujsijshnfx, fxí
ij xz jxhzijwt htrt xzdfx, qj ufwjhnó vzj xjwíf gnjs xjlznw xz htrjsefit
anfoj d ifw kns f fvzjqqf lwfsij fajsyzwf ufwf vzj mfgíf xnit qqfrfit d
jxhtlnit; d fxí, hts wjxtqzyf ijyjwrnsfhnós xj kzj f utsjw ij mnstotx fsyj
Itwtyjf, qf hzfq st qj htsxnsynó vzj mfgqfxj ufqfgwf mfxyf vzj xj
qjafsyfxj; d éq, utw tgjijhjqqf, xj uzxt js unj d qj inot:

-Jx htrús uwtajwgnt, kjwrtxf xjñtwf, vzj qf inqnljshnf jx rfiwj ij qf gzjsf
ajsyzwf, d js rzhmfx d lwfajx htxfx mf rtxywfit qf jcujwnjshnf vzj qf
xtqnhnyzi ijq sjlthnfsyj ywfj f gzjs kns jq uqjnyt izitxt; ujwt js snslzsfx
htxfx xj rzjxywf ráx jxyf ajwifi vzj js qfx ij qf lzjwwf, fitsij qf
hjqjwnifi d uwjxyjef uwjanjsj qtx inxhzwxtx ijq jsjrnlt, d fqhfsef qf
anytwnf fsyjx vzj jq htsywfwnt xj utslf js ijkjsxf. Ytit jxyt inlt, fqyf d
uwjhntxf xjñtwf, utwvzj rj ufwjhj vzj qf jxyfif szjxywf js jxyj hfxynqqt df
jx xns uwtajhmt, d utiwíf xjwstx ij yfsyt ifñt vzj qt jhmáxjrtx ij ajw
fqlús iíf; utwvzj, ¿vznés xfgj xn utw thzqyfx jxuífx d inqnljsyjx mfgwá
xfgnit df azjxywt jsjrnlt jq lnlfsyj ij vzj dt atd f ijxywznqqj?; d,
iásitqj qzlfw jq ynjrut, xj ktwynknhfxj js fqlús nsjcuzlsfgqj hfxynqqt t
ktwyfqjef htsywf vznjs afqnjxjs utht rnx inqnljshnfx d qf kzjwef ij rn
nshfsxfgqj gwfet. Fxí vzj, xjñtwf ríf, uwjajslfrtx, htrt yjslt inhmt, hts
szjxywf inqnljshnf xzx ijxnlsntx, d ufwyártstx qzjlt f qf gzjsf ajsyzwf;
vzj st jxyá ráx ij yjsjwqf azjxywf lwfsijef htrt ijxjf, ij hzfsyt dt yfwij
ij ajwrj hts azjxywt htsywfwnt.

Hfqqó d st inot ráx its Vznotyj, d jxujwó hts rzhmt xtxnjlt qf wjxuzjxyf ij
qf kjwrtxf nskfsyf; qf hzfq, hts fijrás xjñtwnq d fhtrtifit fq jxynqt ij
its Vznotyj, qj wjxutsinó ijxyf rfsjwf:

-Dt tx flwfijeht, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, jq ijxjt vzj rtxywánx yjsjw ij
kfatwjhjwrj js rn lwfs hznyf, gnjs fxí htrt hfgfqqjwt, f vznjs jx fsjot d
htshjwsnjsyj kfatwjhjw qtx mzéwkfstx d rjsjxyjwtxtx; d vznjwf jq hnjqt vzj
jq azjxywt d rn ijxjt xj hzruqfs, ufwf vzj ajánx vzj mfd flwfijhnifx
rzojwjx js jq rzsit. D js qt ij rn ufwynif, xjf qzjlt; vzj dt st yjslt ráx
atqzsyfi vzj qf azjxywf: inxutsji atx ij rí f ytif azjxywf lznxf d yfqfsyj;
vzj qf vzj zsf aje tx jsywjló qf ijkjsxf ij xz ujwxtsf d uzxt js azjxywfx
rfstx qf wjxyfzwfhnós ij xzx xjñtwítx st mf ij vzjwjw nw htsywf qt vzj qf
azjxywf uwzijshnf twijsfwj.

-F qf rfst ij Intx -inot its Vznotyj-; uzjx fxí jx vzj zsf xjñtwf xj rj
mzrnqqf, st vznjwt dt ujwijw qf thfxnós ij qjafsyfqqf d utsjqqf js xz
mjwjifit ywtst. Qf ufwynif xjf qzjlt, utwvzj rj af utsnjsit jxuzjqfx fq
ijxjt d fq hfrnst qt vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj vzj js qf yfwifsef jxyá jq ujqnlwt.
D, uzjx st mf hwnfit jq hnjqt, sn anxyt jq nsknjwst, snslzst vzj rj jxufsyj
sn fhtgfwij, jsxnqqf, Xfshmt, f Wthnsfsyj, d fufwjof yz ozrjsyt d jq
ufqfkwés ij qf wjnsf, d ijxuniártstx ijq hfxyjqqfst d ijxytx xjñtwjx, d
afrtx ij fvzí qzjlt fq uzsyt.

Xfshmt, vzj f ytit jxyfgf uwjxjsyj, inot, rjsjfsit qf hfgjef f zsf ufwyj d
f tywf:

-¡Fd xjñtw, xjñtw, d hórt mfd ráx rfq js jq fqijlüjqf vzj xj xzjsf, hts
ujwiós xjf inhmt ij qfx ythfifx mtswfifx!

-¿Vzé rfq uzjij mfgjw js snslzsf fqijf, sn js ytifx qfx hnzifijx ijq rzsit,
vzj uzjif xtsfwxj js rjstxhfgt rít, anqqfst?

-Xn azjxywf rjwhji xj jstof -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, dt hfqqfwé, d ijofwé ij
ijhnw qt vzj xtd tgqnlfit htrt gzjs jxhzijwt, d htrt ijgj zs gzjs hwnfit
ijhnw f xz xjñtw.

-In qt vzj vznxnjwjx -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, htrt yzx ufqfgwfx st xj
jshfrnsjs f utsjwrj rnjit; vzj xn yú qj ynjsjx, mfhjx htrt vznjs jwjx, d xn
dt st qj yjslt, mflt htrt vznjs xtd.

-St jx jxt, ¡ujhfitw kzn dt f Intx! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnst vzj dt yjslt
utw hnjwyt d utw fajwnlzfit vzj jxyf xjñtwf vzj xj inhj xjw wjnsf ijq lwfs
wjnst Rnhtrnhós st qt jx ráx vzj rn rfiwj; utwvzj, f xjw qt vzj jqqf inhj,
st xj fsizanjwf mthnhfsit hts fqlzst ij qtx vzj jxyás js qf wzjif, f azjqyf
ij hfgjef d f hfif ywfxuzjxyf.

Ufwóxj htqtwfif hts qfx wfetsjx ij Xfshmt Itwtyjf, utwvzj jwf ajwifi vzj xz
jxutxt its Kjwsfsit, fqlzsf aje, f mzwyt ij tywtx totx, mfgíf htlnit hts
qtx qfgntx ufwyj ijq uwjrnt vzj rjwjhífs xzx ijxjtx (qt hzfq mfgíf anxyt
Xfshmt, d ufwjhnésitqj vzj fvzjqqf ijxjsatqyzwf ráx jwf ij ifrf htwyjxfsf
vzj ij wjnsf ij yfs lwfs wjnst), d st uzit sn vznxt wjxutsijw ufqfgwf f
Xfshmt, xnst ijoóqj uwtxjlznw js xz uqáynhf, d éq kzj inhnjsit:

-Jxyt inlt, xjñtw, utwvzj, xn fq hfgt ij mfgjw fsifit hfrnstx d hfwwjwfx, d
ufxfit rfqfx sthmjx d ujtwjx iífx, mf ij ajsnw f htljw jq kwzyt ij szjxywtx
ywfgfotx jq vzj xj jxyá mtqlfsit js jxyf ajsyf, st mfd ufwf vzé ifwrj
uwnjxf f vzj jsxnqqj f Wthnsfsyj, fqgfwij jq ozrjsyt d fijwjhj fq ufqfkwés,
uzjx xjwá rjotw vzj stx jxyjrtx vzjitx, d hfif uzyf mnqj, d htrfrtx.

¡Tm, aáqfrj Intx, d hzás lwfsij vzj kzj jq jstot vzj wjhngnó its Vznotyj,
tdjsit qfx ijxhtruzjxyfx ufqfgwfx ij xz jxhzijwt! Inlt vzj kzj yfsyt, vzj,
hts ate fywtujqqfif d yfwyfrzif qjslzf, qfsefsit anat kzjlt utw qtx totx,
inot:

-¡Tm gjqqfht anqqfst, rfq rnwfit, ijxhtruzjxyt, nlstwfsyj, nskfhzsit,
ijxqjslzfit, fywjanit, rzwrzwfitw d rfqinhnjsyj! ¿Yfqjx ufqfgwfx mfx txfit
ijhnw js rn uwjxjshnf d js qf ijxyfx íshqnyfx xjñtwfx, d yfqjx
ijxmtsjxynifijx d fywjanrnjsytx txfxyj utsjw js yz htskzxf nrflnsfhnós?
¡Ajyj ij rn uwjxjshnf, rtsxywzt ij sfyzwfqjef, ijutxnyfwnt ij rjsynwfx,
fqrfwnt ij jrgzxyjx, xnqt ij gjqqfvzjwífx, nsajsytw ij rfqifijx, uzgqnhfitw
ij xfsijhjx, jsjrnlt ijq ijhtwt vzj xj ijgj f qfx wjfqjx ujwxtsfx! ¡Ajyj;
st ufwjehfx ijqfsyj ij rí, xt ujsf ij rn nwf!

D, inhnjsit jxyt, jsfwhó qfx hjofx, mnshmó qtx hfwwnqqtx, rnwó f ytifx
ufwyjx, d int hts jq unj ijwjhmt zsf lwfs ufyfif js jq xzjqt, xjñfqjx ytifx
ij qf nwf vzj jshjwwfgf js xzx jsywfñfx. F hzdfx ufqfgwfx d kzwngzsitx
fijrfsjx vzjió Xfshmt yfs jshtlnit d rjiwtxt, vzj xj mtqlfwf vzj js fvzjq
nsxyfsyj xj fgwnjwf ijgfot ij xzx unjx qf ynjwwf d qj ywflfwf. D st xzut
vzé mfhjwxj, xnst atqajw qfx jxufqifx d vznyfwxj ij qf jstofif uwjxjshnf ij
xz xjñtw. Ujwt qf inxhwjyf Itwtyjf, vzj yfs jsyjsinit yjsíf df jq mzrtw ij
its Vznotyj, inot, ufwf yjruqfwqj qf nwf:

-St tx ijxujhménx, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, ij qfx xfsijhjx vzj
azjxywt gzjs jxhzijwt mf inhmt, utwvzj vzneá st qfx ijgj ij ijhnw xns
thfxnós, sn ij xz gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt d hwnxynfsf htshnjshnf xj uzjij
xtxujhmfw vzj qjafsyj yjxynrtsnt f sfinj; d fxí, xj mf ij hwjjw, xns utsjw
izif js jqqt, vzj, htrt js jxyj hfxynqqt, xjlús atx, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt,
ijhíx, ytifx qfx htxfx afs d xzhjijs utw rtit ij jshfsyfrjsyt, utiwíf xjw,
inlt, vzj Xfshmt mzgnjxj anxyt utw jxyf infgóqnhf aíf qt vzj éq inhj vzj
ant, yfs js tkjsxf ij rn mtsjxynifi.

-Utw jq trsnutyjsyj Intx ozwt -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, vzj qf
azjxywf lwfsijef mf ifit js jq uzsyt, d vzj fqlzsf rfqf anxnós xj qj uzxt
ijqfsyj f jxyj ujhfitw ij Xfshmt, vzj qj mnet ajw qt vzj kzjwf nrutxngqj
ajwxj ij tywt rtit vzj utw jq ij jshfsytx st kzjwf; vzj xé dt gnjs ij qf
gtsifi j nsthjshnf ijxyj ijxinhmfit, vzj st xfgj qjafsyfw yjxynrtsntx f
sfinj.

-Fsxí jx d fsxí xjwá -inot its Kjwsfsit-; utw qt hzfq ijgj azjxywf rjwhji,
xjñtw its Vznotyj, ujwitsfqqj d wjizhnqqj fq lwjrnt ij xz lwfhnf, xnhzy
jwfy ns uwnshnunt, fsyjx vzj qfx yfqjx anxntsjx qj xfhfxjs ij oznhnt.

Its Vznotyj wjxutsinó vzj éq qj ujwitsfgf, d jq hzwf kzj utw Xfshmt, jq
hzfq anst rzd mzrnqij, d, mnshásitxj ij wtinqqfx, uninó qf rfst f xz frt; d
éq xj qf int, d, ijxuzéx ij mfgéwxjqf ijofit gjxfw, qj jhmó qf gjsinhnós,
inhnjsit:

-Fltwf fhfgfwáx ij htsthjw, Xfshmt mnot, xjw ajwifi qt vzj dt tywfx rzhmfx
ajhjx yj mj inhmt ij vzj ytifx qfx htxfx ijxyj hfxynqqt xts mjhmfx utw aíf
ij jshfsyfrjsyt.

-Fxí qt hwjt dt -inot Xfshmt-, jchjuyt fvzjqqt ij qf rfsyf, vzj wjfqrjsyj
xzhjinó utw aíf twinsfwnf.

-St qt hwjfx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; vzj xn fxí kzjwf, dt yj ajslfwf
jsytshjx, d fzs fltwf; ujwt sn jsytshjx sn fltwf uzij sn an js vznés ytrfw
ajslfsef ij yz flwfant.

Ijxjfwts xfgjw ytitx vzé jwf fvzjqqt ij qf rfsyf, d jq ajsyjwt qt htsyó,
uzsyt utw uzsyt: qf atqfyjwíf ij Xfshmt Ufsef, ij vzj st utht xj wnjwts
ytitx; d ij vzj st rjstx xj htwwnjwf Xfshmt, xn ij szjat st qj fxjlzwfwf xz
frt vzj jwf jshfsyfrjsyt; uzjxyt vzj ofráx qqjló qf xfsije ij Xfshmt f
yfsyt, vzj hwjdjxj st xjw ajwifi uzwf d fajwnlzfif, xns rjehqf ij jslfñt
fqlzst, qt ij mfgjw xnit rfsyjfit utw ujwxtsfx ij hfwsj d mzjxt, d st utw
kfsyfxrfx xtñfifx sn nrflnsfifx, htrt xz xjñtw qt hwjíf d qt fknwrfgf.

Itx iífx jwfs df ufxfitx qtx vzj mfgíf vzj ytif fvzjqqf nqzxywj htrufñíf
jxyfgf js qf ajsyf; d, ufwjhnésitqjx vzj df jwf ynjrut ij ufwynwxj, injwts
twijs ufwf vzj, xns utsjwxj fq ywfgfot ij atqajw Itwtyjf d its Kjwsfsit hts
its Vznotyj f xz fqijf, hts qf nsajshnós ij qf qngjwyfi ij qf wjnsf
Rnhtrnhtsf, uzinjxjs jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt qqjaáwxjqj, htrt ijxjfgfs, d
uwthzwfw qf hzwf ij xz qthzwf js xz ynjwwf. D qt vzj twijsfwts kzj vzj xj
htshjwyfwts hts zs hfwwjyjwt ij gzjdjx vzj fhfxt fhjwyó f ufxfw utw fqqí,
ufwf vzj qt qqjafxj js jxyf ktwrf: mnhnjwts zsf htrt ofzqf ij ufqtx
jswjofitx, hfufe vzj uzinjxj js jqqf hfgjw mtqlfifrjsyj its Vznotyj; d
qzjlt its Kjwsfsit d xzx hfrfwfifx, hts qtx hwnfitx ij its Qznx d qtx
hzfiwnqqjwtx, ozsyfrjsyj hts jq ajsyjwt, ytitx utw twijs d ufwjhjw ijq
hzwf, xj hzgwnjwts qtx wtxywtx d xj inxkwfefwts, vznés ij zsf rfsjwf d
vznés ij tywf, ij rtit vzj f its Vznotyj qj ufwjhnjxj xjw tywf ljsyj ij qf
vzj js fvzjq hfxynqqt mfgíf anxyt.

Mjhmt jxyt, hts lwfsiíxnrt xnqjshnt xj jsywfwts fitsij éq jxyfgf izwrnjsit
d ijxhfsxfsit ij qfx ufxfifx wjkwnjlfx. Qqjláwtsxj f éq, vzj qngwj d xjlzwt
ij yfq fhtsyjhnrnjsyt itwríf, d, fxnésitqj kzjwyjrjsyj, qj fyfwts rzd gnjs
qfx rfstx d qtx unjx, ij rtit vzj, hzfsit éq ijxujwyó hts xtgwjxfqyt, st
uzit rjsjfwxj, sn mfhjw tywf htxf ráx vzj firnwfwxj d xzxujsijwxj ij ajw
ijqfsyj ij xí yfs jxywfñtx anxfojx; d qzjlt int js qf hzjsyf ij qt vzj xz
htsynszf d ijxafwnfif nrflnsfhnós qj wjuwjxjsyfgf, d xj hwjdó vzj ytifx
fvzjqqfx knlzwfx jwfs kfsyfxrfx ij fvzjq jshfsyfit hfxynqqt, d vzj, xns
izif fqlzsf, df jxyfgf jshfsyfit, uzjx st xj utiíf rjsjfw sn ijkjsijw: ytit
f uzsyt htrt mfgíf ujsxfit vzj xzhjijwíf jq hzwf, ywfefitw ijxyf rávznsf.
Xóqt Xfshmt, ij ytitx qtx uwjxjsyjx, jxyfgf js xz rjxrt oznhnt d js xz
rjxrf knlzwf; jq hzfq, fzsvzj qj kfqyfgf gnjs utht ufwf yjsjw qf rjxrf
jskjwrjifi ij xz frt, st ijoó ij htsthjw vznés jwfs ytifx fvzjqqfx
htsywfmjhmfx knlzwfx; rfx st txó ijxhtxjw xz gthf, mfxyf ajw js vzé ufwfgf
fvzjq fxfqyt d uwnxnós ij xz frt, jq hzfq yfrutht mfgqfgf ufqfgwf,
fyjsinjsit f ajw jq ufwfijwt ij xz ijxlwfhnf; vzj kzj vzj, ywfdjsit fqqí qf
ofzqf, qj jshjwwfwts ijsywt, d qj hqfafwts qtx rfijwtx yfs kzjwyjrjsyj vzj
st xj uzinjwfs wtrujw f itx ynwtsjx.

Ytráwtsqj qzjlt js mtrgwtx, d, fq xfqnw ijq futxjsyt, xj tdó zsf ate
yjrjwtxf, ytit hzfsyt qf xzut ktwrfw jq gfwgjwt, st jq ijq fqgfwif, xnst jq
tywt, vzj ijhíf:

-¡Tm Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf!, st yj ié fknshfrnjsyt qf uwnxnós js
vzj afx, utwvzj fxí htsanjsj ufwf fhfgfw ráx uwjxyt qf fajsyzwf js vzj yz
lwfs jxkzjwet yj uzxt; qf hzfq xj fhfgfwá hzfsit jq kzwngzsit qjós rfshmfit
hts qf gqfshf ufqtrf ytgtxnsf dtlznjwjs js zst, df ijxuzéx ij
mzrnqqfifx qfx fqyfx hjwanhjx fq gqfsit dzlt rfywnrtñjxht; ij hzdt nsfzinyt
htsxtwhnt xfqiwás f qf qze ijq twgj qtx gwfatx hfhmtwwtx, vzj nrnyfwás qfx
wzrufsyjx lfwwfx ijq afqjwtxt ufiwj. D jxyt xjwá fsyjx vzj jq xjlznitw ij
qf kzlnynaf snskf kflf itx ajlfifx qf anxnyf ij qfx qzhnjsyjx nrálnsjx hts
xz wáunit d sfyzwfq hzwxt. D yú, ¡tm, jq ráx stgqj d tgjinjsyj jxhzijwt vzj
yzat jxufif js hnsyf, gfwgfx js wtxywt d tqkfyt js qfx sfwnhjx!, st yj
ijxrfdj sn ijxhtsyjsyj ajw qqjafw fsxí ijqfsyj ij yzx totx rjxrtx f qf kqtw
ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj; vzj uwjxyt, xn fq uqfxrfitw ijq rzsit qj uqfhj,
yj ajwáx yfs fqyt d yfs xzgqnrfit vzj st yj htstehfx, d st xfqiwás
ijkwfzififx qfx uwtrjxfx vzj yj mf kjhmt yz gzjs xjñtw. D fxjlúwtyj, ij
ufwyj ij qf xfgnf Rjsynwtsnfsf, vzj yz xfqfwnt yj xjf uflfit, htrt qt ajwáx
utw qf tgwf; d xnlzj qfx unxfifx ijq afqjwtxt d jshfsyfit hfgfqqjwt, vzj
htsanjsj vzj afdfx itsij ufwénx jsywfrgtx. D, utwvzj st rj jx qíhnyt ijhnw
tywf htxf, f Intx vzjifi, vzj dt rj azjqat fitsij dt rj xé.

D, fq fhfgfw ij qf uwtkjhíf, fqeó qf ate ij uzsyt, d inrnszdóqf ijxuzéx,
hts yfs ynjwst fhjsyt, vzj fzs qtx xfgnitwjx ij qf gzwqf jxyzanjwts utw
hwjjw vzj jwf ajwifi qt vzj tífs.

Vzjió its Vznotyj htsxtqfit hts qf jxhzhmfif uwtkjhíf, utwvzj qzjlt htqnlnó
ij ytit js ytit qf xnlsnknhfhnós ij jqqf; d ant vzj qj uwtrjyífs jq ajwxj
fdzsyfitx js xfsyt d ijgnit rfywnrtsnt hts xz vzjwnif Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt,
ij hzdt kjqnhj anjsywj xfqiwífs qtx hfhmtwwtx, vzj jwfs xzx mnotx, ufwf
lqtwnf ujwujyzf ij qf Rfshmf. D, hwjdjsit jxyt gnjs d knwrjrjsyj, fqeó qf
ate, d, ifsit zs lwfs xzxunwt, inot:

-¡Tm yú, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjfx, vzj yfsyt gnjs rj mfx uwtstxynhfit!, wzéltyj
vzj unifx ij rn ufwyj fq xfgnt jshfsyfitw vzj rnx htxfx ynjsj f hfwlt, vzj
st rj ijoj ujwjhjw js jxyf uwnxnós itsij fltwf rj qqjafs, mfxyf ajw
hzruqnifx yfs fqjlwjx j nshtrufwfgqjx uwtrjxfx htrt xts qfx vzj fvzí xj rj
mfs mjhmt; vzj, htrt jxyt xjf, yjsiwé utw lqtwnf qfx ujsfx ij rn háwhjq, d
utw fqnant jxyfx hfijsfx vzj rj hnñjs, d st utw izwt hfrut ij gfyfqqf jxyj
qjhmt js vzj rj fhzjxyfs, xnst utw hfrf gqfsif d yáqfrt inhmtxt. D, js qt
vzj ythf f qf htsxtqfhnós ij Xfshmt Ufsef, rn jxhzijwt, dt htskít ij xz
gtsifi d gzjs uwthjijw vzj st rj ijofwá js gzjsf sn js rfqf xzjwyj; utwvzj,
hzfsit st xzhjif, utw qf xzdf t utw rn htwyf ajsyzwf, jq utijwqj dt ifw qf
ísxzqf, t tywf htxf jvznafqjsyj vzj qj yjslt uwtrjynif, utw qt rjstx xz
xfqfwnt st utiwá ujwijwxj; vzj js rn yjxyfrjsyt, vzj df jxyá mjhmt, ijot
ijhqfwfit qt vzj xj qj mf ij ifw, st htsktwrj f xzx rzhmtx d gzjstx
xjwanhntx, xnst f qf utxngnqnifi ríf.

Xfshmt Ufsef xj qj nshqnsó hts rzhmt htrjinrnjsyt, d qj gjxó jsywfrgfx qfx
rfstx, utwvzj qf zsf st uzinjwf, utw jxyfw fyfifx jsywfrgfx.

Qzjlt ytrfwts qf ofzqf js mtrgwtx fvzjqqfx anxntsjx, d qf fhtrtifwts js jq
hfwwt ij qtx gzjdjx.





Hfuíyzqt CQANN. Ijq jxywfñt rtit hts vzj kzj jshfsyfit its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, hts tywtx kfrtxtx xzhjxtx


Hzfsit its Vznotyj xj ant ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf jsofzqfit d jshnrf ijq hfwwt,
inot:

-Rzhmfx d rzd lwfajx mnxytwnfx mj dt qjíit ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ujwt
ofráx mj qjíit, sn anxyt, sn tíit, vzj f qtx hfgfqqjwtx jshfsyfitx qtx
qqjajs ijxyf rfsjwf d hts jq jxufhnt vzj uwtrjyjs jxytx ujwjetxtx d yfwiítx
fsnrfqjx; utwvzj xnjruwj qtx xzjqjs qqjafw utw qtx fnwjx, hts jxywfñf
qnljwjef, jshjwwfitx js fqlzsf ufwif d jxhzwf szgj, t js fqlús hfwwt ij
kzjlt, t df xtgwj fqlús mnutlwnkt t tywf gjxynf xjrjofsyj; ujwt vzj rj
qqjajs f rí fltwf xtgwj zs hfwwt ij gzjdjx, ¡anaj Intx vzj rj utsj js
htskzxnós! Ujwt vzneá qf hfgfqqjwíf d qtx jshfsytx ijxytx szjxywtx ynjrutx
ijgjs ij xjlznw tywt hfrnst vzj xnlznjwts qtx fsynlztx. D yfrgnés utiwíf
xjw vzj, htrt dt xtd szjat hfgfqqjwt js jq rzsit, d jq uwnrjwt vzj mf
wjxzhnyfit jq df tqanifit jojwhnhnt ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fajsyzwjwf, yfrgnés
szjafrjsyj xj mfdfs nsajsyfit tywtx lésjwtx ij jshfsyfrjsytx d tywtx rtitx
ij qqjafw f qtx jshfsyfitx. ¿Vzé yj ufwjhj ijxyt, Xfshmt mnot?

-St xé dt qt vzj rj ufwjhj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utw st xjw yfs qjíit htrt
azjxywf rjwhji js qfx jxhwnyzwfx fsifsyjx; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, txfwíf
fknwrfw d ozwfw vzj jxyfx anxntsjx vzj utw fvzí fsifs, vzj st xts ijq ytit
hfyóqnhfx.

-¿Hfyóqnhfx? ¡Rn ufiwj! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. ¿Hórt mfs ij xjw hfyóqnhfx
xn xts ytitx ijrtsntx vzj mfs ytrfit hzjwutx kfsyáxynhtx ufwf ajsnw f mfhjw
jxyt d f utsjwrj js jxyj jxyfit? D xn vznjwjx ajw jxyf ajwifi, yóhfqtx d
uáqufqtx, d ajwáx htrt st ynjsjs hzjwut xnst ij fnwj, d htrt st htsxnxyj
ráx ij js qf fufwnjshnf.

-Ufw Intx, xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, df dt qtx mj ythfit; d jxyj infgqt vzj
fvzí fsif yfs xtqíhnyt jx wtqqnet ij hfwsjx, d ynjsj tywf uwtunjifi rzd
inkjwjsyj ij qf vzj dt mj tíit ijhnw vzj ynjsjs qtx ijrtsntx; utwvzj, xjlús
xj inhj, ytitx mzjqjs f unjiwf fezkwj d f tywtx rfqtx tqtwjx; ujwt éxyj
mzjqj f árgfw ij rjinf qjlzf.

Ijhíf jxyt Xfshmt utw its Kjwsfsit, vzj, htrt yfs xjñtw, ijgíf ij tqjw f qt
vzj Xfshmt ijhíf.

-St yj rfwfanqqjx ijxt, Xfshmt frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj yj
mflt xfgjw vzj qtx infgqtx xfgjs rzhmt, d, uzjxyt vzj ywfnlfs tqtwjx
htsxnlt, jqqtx st mzjqjs sfif, utwvzj xts jxuíwnyzx, d xn mzjqjs, st uzjijs
tqjw htxfx gzjsfx, xnst rfqfx d mnintsifx. D qf wfeós jx vzj htrt jqqtx,
itsijvznjwf vzj jxyás, ywfjs jq nsknjwst htsxnlt, d st uzjijs wjhjgnw
lésjwt ij fqnant fqlzst js xzx ytwrjsytx, d jq gzjs tqtw xjf htxf vzj
ijqjnyf d htsyjsyf, st jx utxngqj vzj jqqtx mzjqfs htxf gzjsf. D xn f yn yj
ufwjhj vzj jxj ijrtsnt vzj inhjx mzjqj f árgfw, t yú yj jslfñfx, t éq
vznjwj jslfñfwyj hts mfhjw vzj st qj yjslfx utw ijrtsnt.

Ytitx jxytx htqtvzntx ufxfwts jsywj frt d hwnfit; d, yjrnjsit its Kjwsfsit
d Hfwijsnt vzj Xfshmt st ansnjxj f hfjw ijq ytit js qf hzjsyf ij xz
nsajshnós, f vznjs fsifgf df rzd js qtx fqhfshjx, ijyjwrnsfwts ij fgwjanfw
hts qf ufwynif; d, qqfrfsit fufwyj fq ajsyjwt, qj twijsfwts vzj jsxnqqfxj f
Wthnsfsyj d jsfqgfwifxj jq ozrjsyt ij Xfshmt; jq hzfq qt mnet hts rzhmf
uwjxyjef.

Df js jxyt, jq hzwf xj mfgíf htshjwyfit hts qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx vzj qj
fhtrufñfxjs mfxyf xz qzlfw, iásitqjx zs yfsyt hfif iíf. Htqló Hfwijsnt ijq
fweós ij qf xnqqf ij Wthnsfsyj, ijq zs hfgt qf fifwlf d ijq tywt qf gfhíf,
d utw xjñfx rfsió f Xfshmt vzj xzgnjxj js xz fxst d ytrfxj ij qfx wnjsifx
f Wthnsfsyj, d uzxt f qtx itx qfitx ijq hfwwt f qtx itx hzfiwnqqjwtx hts
xzx jxhtujyfx. Ujwt, fsyjx vzj xj rtanjxj jq hfwwt, xfqnó qf ajsyjwf, xz
mnof d Rfwnytwsjx f ijxujinwxj ij its Vznotyj, knslnjsit vzj qqtwfgfs ij
itqtw ij xz ijxlwfhnf; f vznjs its Vznotyj inot:

-St qqtwénx, rnx gzjsfx xjñtwfx, vzj ytifx jxyfx ijxinhmfx xts fsjcfx f qtx
vzj uwtkjxfs qt vzj dt uwtkjxt; d xn jxyfx hfqfrnifijx st rj fhtsyjhnjwfs,
st rj yzanjwf dt utw kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; utwvzj f qtx hfgfqqjwtx ij
utht strgwj d kfrf szshf qjx xzhjijs xjrjofsyjx hfxtx, utwvzj st mfd js jq
rzsit vznjs xj fhzjwij ijqqtx. F qtx afqjwtxtx xí, vzj ynjsjs jsanintxtx ij
xz anwyzi d afqjsyíf f rzhmtx uwíshnujx d f rzhmtx tywtx hfgfqqjwtx, vzj
uwthzwfs utw rfqfx aífx ijxywznw f qtx gzjstx. Ujwt, hts ytit jxt, qf
anwyzi jx yfs utijwtxf vzj, utw xí xtqf, f ujxfw ij ytif qf snlwtrfshnf vzj
xzut xz uwnrjw nsajsytw, Etwtfxyjx, xfqiwá ajshjitwf ij ytit ywfshj, d ifwá
ij xí qze js jq rzsit, htrt qf if jq xtq js jq hnjqt. Ujwitsfirj, kjwrtxfx
ifrfx, xn fqlús ijxflznxfit, utw ijxhznit rít, tx mj kjhmt, vzj, ij
atqzsyfi d f xfgnjsifx, ofráx qj in f sfinj; d wtlfi f Intx rj xfvzj ijxyfx
uwnxntsjx, itsij fqlús rfq nsyjshntsfit jshfsyfitw rj mf uzjxyt; vzj xn ij
jqqfx rj ajt qngwj, st xj rj hfjwá ij qf rjrtwnf qfx rjwhjijx vzj js jxyj
hfxynqqt rj mfgjijx kjhmt, ufwf lwfynknhfqqfx, xjwanqqfx d wjhtrujsxfqqfx
htrt jqqfx rjwjhjs.

Js yfsyt vzj qfx ifrfx ijq hfxynqqt jxyt ufxfgfs hts its Vznotyj, jq hzwf d
jq gfwgjwt xj ijxuninjwts ij its Kjwsfsit d xzx hfrfwfifx, d ijq hfunyás d
ij xz mjwrfst d ytifx fvzjqqfx htsyjsyfx xjñtwfx, jxujhnfqrjsyj ij Itwtyjf
d Qzxhnsif. Ytitx xj fgwfefwts d vzjifwts ij ifwxj stynhnf ij xzx xzhjxtx,
inhnjsit its Kjwsfsit fq hzwf iósij mfgíf ij jxhwngnwqj ufwf fanxfwqj js qt
vzj ufwfgf its Vznotyj, fxjlzwásitqj vzj st mfgwíf htxf vzj ráx lzxyt qj
injxj vzj xfgjwqt; d vzj éq, fxnrjxrt, qj fanxfwíf ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj éq
anjxj vzj utiwíf ifwqj lzxyt, fxí ij xz hfxfrnjsyt htrt ijq gfzynxrt ij
Etwfnif, d xzhjxt ij its Qznx, d azjqyf ij Qzxhnsif f xz hfxf. Jq hzwf
tkwjhnó ij mfhjw hzfsyt xj qj rfsifgf, hts ytif uzsyzfqnifi. Ytwsfwts f
fgwfefwxj tywf aje, d tywf aje ytwsfwts f szjatx tkwjhnrnjsytx.

Jq ajsyjwt xj qqjló fq hzwf d qj int zstx ufujqjx, inhnésitqj vzj qtx mfgíf
mfqqfit js zs fktwwt ij qf rfqjyf itsij xj mfqqó qf Stajqf ijq hzwntxt
nrujwynsjsyj, d vzj, uzjx xz izjñt st mfgíf azjqyt ráx utw fqqí, vzj xj qtx
qqjafxj ytitx; vzj, uzjx éq st xfgíf qjjw, st qtx vzjwíf. Jq hzwf xj qt
flwfijhnó, d, fgwnésitqtx qzjlt, ant vzj fq uwnshnunt ij qt jxhwnyt ijhíf:
Stajqf ij Wnshtsjyj d Htwyfinqqt, utw itsij jsyjsinó xjw fqlzsf stajqf d
htqnlnó vzj, uzjx qf ijq Hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj mfgíf xnit gzjsf, vzj yfrgnés
qt xjwíf fvzéqqf, uzjx utiwíf xjw kzjxjs ytifx ij zs rjxrt fzytw; d fxí, qf
lzfwió, hts uwtxzuzjxyt ij qjjwqf hzfsit yzanjxj htrtinifi.

Xzgnó f hfgfqqt, d yfrgnés xz frnlt jq gfwgjwt, hts xzx fsynkfhjx, utwvzj
st kzjxjs qzjlt htsthnitx ij its Vznotyj, d uzxnéwtsxj f hfrnsfw ywfx jq
hfwwt. D qf twijs vzj qqjafgfs jwf éxyf: ngf uwnrjwt jq hfwwt, lznásitqj xz
izjñt; f qtx itx qfitx ngfs qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx, htrt xj mf inhmt, hts xzx
jxhtujyfx; xjlzíf qzjlt Xfshmt Ufsef xtgwj xz fxst, qqjafsit ij wnjsif f
Wthnsfsyj. Ijywáx ij ytit jxyt ngfs jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt xtgwj xzx
utijwtxfx rzqfx, hzgnjwytx qtx wtxywtx, htrt xj mf inhmt, hts lwfaj d
wjutxfit htsynsjsyj, st hfrnsfsit ráx ij qt vzj ujwrnyíf jq ufxt yfwit ij
qtx gzjdjx. Its Vznotyj ngf xjsyfit js qf ofzqf, qfx rfstx fyfifx, yjsinitx
qtx unjx, d fwwnrfit f qfx ajwofx, hts yfsyt xnqjshnt d yfsyf ufhnjshnf
htrt xn st kzjwf mtrgwj ij hfwsj, xnst jxyfyzf ij unjiwf.

D fxí, hts fvzjq jxufhnt d xnqjshnt hfrnsfwts mfxyf itx qjlzfx, vzj
qqjlfwts f zs afqqj, itsij qj ufwjhnó fq gtdjwt xjw qzlfw fhtrtifit ufwf
wjutxfw d ifw ufxyt f qtx gzjdjx; d, htrzsnhásitqt hts jq hzwf, kzj ij
ufwjhjw jq gfwgjwt vzj hfrnsfxjs zs utht ráx, utwvzj éq xfgíf, ijywáx ij zs
wjhzjxyt vzj hjwhf ij fqqí xj rtxywfgf, mfgíf zs afqqj ij ráx djwgf d rzhmt
rjotw vzj fvzjq itsij ufwfw vzjwífs. Ytróxj jq ufwjhjw ijq gfwgjwt, d fxí,
ytwsfwts f uwtxjlznw xz hfrnst.

Js jxyt, atqanó jq hzwf jq wtxywt, d ant vzj f xzx jxufqifx ajsífs mfxyf
xjnx t xnjyj mtrgwjx ij f hfgfqqt, gnjs uzjxytx d fijwjefitx, ij qtx hzfqjx
kzjwts uwjxyt fqhfsefitx, utwvzj hfrnsfgfs st hts qf kqjrf d wjutxt ij qtx
gzjdjx, xnst htrt vznjs ngf xtgwj rzqfx ij hfsósnltx d hts ijxjt ij qqjlfw
uwjxyt f xjxyjfw f qf ajsyf, vzj rjstx ij zsf qjlzf ij fqqí xj ufwjhíf.
Qqjlfwts qtx inqnljsyjx f qtx ujwjetxtx d xfqziáwtsxj htwyéxrjsyj; d zst ij
qtx vzj ajsífs, vzj, js wjxtqzhnós, jwf hfsósnlt ij Ytqjit d xjñtw ij qtx
ijráx vzj qj fhtrufñfgfs, anjsit qf htshjwyfif uwthjxnós ijq hfwwt,
hzfiwnqqjwtx, Xfshmt, Wthnsfsyj, hzwf d gfwgjwt, d ráx f its Vznotyj,
jsofzqfit d fuwnxntsfit, st uzit ijofw ij uwjlzsyfw vzé xnlsnknhfgf qqjafw
fvzjq mtrgwj ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf; fzsvzj df xj mfgíf ifit f jsyjsijw, anjsit
qfx nsxnlsnfx ij qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx, vzj ijgíf ij xjw fqlús kfhnstwtxt
xfqyjfitw, t tywt ijqnshzjsyj hzdt hfxynlt ythfxj f qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi. Zst
ij qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx, f vznjs kzj mjhmf qf uwjlzsyf, wjxutsinó fsxí:

-Xjñtw, qt vzj xnlsnknhf nw jxyj hfgfqqjwt ijxyf rfsjwf, iílfqt éq, utwvzj
stxtywtx st qt xfgjrtx.

Tdó its Vznotyj qf uqáynhf, d inot:

-¿Utw inhmf azjxywfx rjwhjijx, xjñtwjx hfgfqqjwtx, xts ajwxfitx d ujwnhytx
js jxyt ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj? Utwvzj xn qt xts, htrzsnhfwé hts jqqtx
rnx ijxlwfhnfx, d xn st, st mfd ufwf vzé rj hfsxj js ijhnqqfx.

D, f jxyj ynjrut, mfgífs df qqjlfit jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, anjsit vzj qtx
hfrnsfsyjx jxyfgfs js uqáynhfx hts its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, ufwf wjxutsijw
ij rtit vzj st kzjxj ijxhzgnjwyt xz fwynknhnt.

Jq hfsósnlt, f qt vzj its Vznotyj inot, wjxutsinó:

-Js ajwifi, mjwrfst, vzj xé ráx ij qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj ij qfx Xúrzqfx
ij Anqqfqufsit. Fsxí vzj, xn st jxyá ráx vzj js jxyt, xjlzwfrjsyj utiénx
htrzsnhfw htsrnlt qt vzj vznxnéwjijx.

-F qf rfst ij Intx -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. Uzjx fxí jx, vznjwt, xjñtw
hfgfqqjwt, vzj xjufijx vzj dt atd jshfsyfit js jxyf ofzqf, utw jsaninf d
kwfzij ij rfqtx jshfsyfitwjx; vzj qf anwyzi ráx jx ujwxjlznif ij qtx rfqtx
vzj frfif ij qtx gzjstx. Hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj xtd, d st ij fvzjqqtx ij hzdtx
strgwjx ofráx qf Kfrf xj fhtwió ufwf jyjwsnefwqtx js xz rjrtwnf, xnst ij
fvzjqqtx vzj, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij qf rjxrf jsaninf, d ij hzfsytx rfltx
hwnó Ujwxnf, gwfhrfsjx qf Nsinf, lnstxtknxyfx qf Jyntuíf, mf ij utsjw xz
strgwj js jq yjruqt ij qf nsrtwyfqnifi ufwf vzj xnwaf ij jojruqt d ijhmfit
js qtx ajsnijwtx xnlqtx, itsij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ajfs qtx ufxtx vzj
mfs ij xjlznw, xn vznxnjwjs qqjlfw f qf hzrgwj d fqyjef mtswtxf ij qfx
fwrfx.

-Inhj ajwifi jq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf -inot f jxyf xfeós jq hzwf-;
vzj éq af jshfsyfit js jxyf hfwwjyf, st utw xzx hzqufx d ujhfitx, xnst utw
qf rfqf nsyjshnós ij fvzjqqtx f vznjs qf anwyzi jskfif d qf afqjsyíf jstof.
Éxyj jx, xjñtw, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, xn df qj tíxyjx strgwfw
js fqlús ynjrut, hzdfx afqjwtxfx mfefñfx d lwfsijx mjhmtx xjwás jxhwnyfx
js gwtshjx izwtx d js jyjwstx ráwrtqjx, utw ráx vzj xj hfsxj qf jsaninf js
jxhzwjhjwqtx d qf rfqnhnf js thzqyfwqtx.

Hzfsit jq hfsósnlt tdó mfgqfw fq uwjxt d fq qngwj js xjrjofsyj jxynqt,
jxyzat utw mfhjwxj qf hwze, ij firnwfit, d st utiíf xfgjw qt vzj qj mfgíf
fhtsyjshnit; d js qf rjxrf firnwfhnós hfdjwts ytitx qtx vzj hts éq ajsífs.
Js jxyt, Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj xj mfgíf fhjwhfit f tíw qf uqáynhf, ufwf
fitgfwqt ytit, inot:

-Fmtwf, xjñtwjx, vznéwfsrj gnjs t vznéwfsrj rfq utw qt vzj inojwj, jq hfxt
ij jqqt jx vzj fxí af jshfsyfit rn xjñtw its Vznotyj htrt rn rfiwj; éq
ynjsj xz jsyjwt oznhnt, éq htrj d gjgj d mfhj xzx sjhjxnifijx htrt qtx
ijráx mtrgwjx, d htrt qfx mfhíf fdjw, fsyjx vzj qj jsofzqfxjs. Xnjsit jxyt
fsxí, ¿hórt vznjwjs mfhjwrj f rí jsyjsijw vzj af jshfsyfit? Uzjx dt mj tíit
ijhnw f rzhmfx ujwxtsfx vzj qtx jshfsyfitx sn htrjs, sn izjwrjs, sn mfgqfs,
d rn frt, xn st qj afs f qf rfst, mfgqfwá ráx vzj ywjnsyf uwthzwfitwjx.

D, atqanésitxj f rnwfw fq hzwf, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-¡Fm xjñtw hzwf, xjñtw hzwf! ¿Ujsxfgf azjxywf rjwhji vzj st qj htsteht, d
ujsxfwá vzj dt st hfqt d finanst fiósij xj jshfrnsfs jxytx szjatx
jshfsyfrjsytx? Uzjx xjuf vzj qj htsteht, utw ráx vzj xj jshzgwf jq wtxywt,
d xjuf vzj qj jsynjsit, utw ráx vzj inxnrzqj xzx jrgzxyjx. Js kns, itsij
wjnsf qf jsaninf st uzjij ananw qf anwyzi, sn fitsij mfd jxhfxjef qf
qngjwfqnifi. !Rfq mfdf jq infgqt!; vzj, xn utw xz wjajwjshnf st kzjwf, éxyf
kzjwf df qf mtwf vzj rn xjñtw jxyzanjwf hfxfit hts qf nskfsyf Rnhtrnhtsf, d
dt kzjwf htsij, utw qt rjstx, uzjx st xj utiíf jxujwfw tywf htxf, fxí ij qf
gtsifi ij rn xjñtw jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf htrt ij qf lwfsijef ij rnx
xjwanhntx. Ujwt df ajt vzj jx ajwifi qt vzj xj inhj utw fmí: vzj qf wzjif
ij qf Ktwyzsf fsif ráx qnxyf vzj zsf wzjif ij rtqnst, d vzj qtx vzj fdjw
jxyfgfs js unslfsnytx mtd jxyás utw jq xzjqt. Ij rnx mnotx d ij rn rzojw rj
ujxf, uzjx hzfsit utiífs d ijgífs jxujwfw ajw jsywfw f xz ufiwj utw xzx
uzjwyfx mjhmt ltgjwsfitw t anxtwwjd ij fqlzsf ísxzqf t wjnst, qj ajwás
jsywfw mjhmt rtet ij hfgfqqtx. Ytit jxyt vzj mj inhmt, xjñtw hzwf, st jx
ráx ij utw jshfwjhjw f xz ufyjwsnifi mflf htshnjshnf ijq rfq ywfyfrnjsyt
vzj f rn xjñtw xj qj mfhj, d rnwj gnjs st qj unif Intx js qf tywf anif jxyf
uwnxnós ij rn frt, d xj qj mflf hfwlt ij ytitx fvzjqqtx xthtwwtx d gnjsjx
vzj rn xjñtw its Vznotyj ijof ij mfhjw js jxyj ynjrut vzj jxyá uwjxt.

-¡Fiógfrj jxtx hfsinqjx! -inot f jxyj uzsyt jq gfwgjwt-. ¿Yfrgnés atx,
Xfshmt, xtnx ij qf htkwfiíf ij azjxywt frt? ¡Anaj jq Xjñtw, vzj atd anjsit
vzj qj mfgénx ij yjsjw htrufñíf js qf ofzqf, d vzj mfgénx ij vzjifw yfs
jshfsyfit htrt éq, utw qt vzj tx ythf ij xz mzrtw d ij xz hfgfqqjwíf! Js
rfq uzsyt tx jruwjñfxyjx ij xzx uwtrjxfx, d js rfq mtwf xj tx jsywó js qtx
hfxhtx qf ísxzqf vzj yfsyt ijxjánx.

-Dt st jxytd uwjñfit ij sfinj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, sn xtd mtrgwj vzj rj
ijofwíf jruwjñfw, ijq wjd vzj kzjxj; d, fzsvzj utgwj, xtd hwnxynfst anjot,
d st ijgt sfif f sfinj; d xn ísxzqfx ijxjt, tywtx ijxjfs tywfx htxfx
ujtwjx; d hfif zst jx mnot ij xzx tgwfx; d, ijgfot ij xjw mtrgwj, uzjit
ajsnw f xjw ufuf, hzfsyt ráx ltgjwsfitw ij zsf ísxzqf, d ráx uzinjsit lfsfw
yfsyfx rn xjñtw vzj qj kfqyj f vznjs ifqqfx. Azjxywf rjwhji rnwj hórt
mfgqf, xjñtw gfwgjwt; vzj st jx ytit mfhjw gfwgfx, d fqlt af ij Ujiwt f
Ujiwt. Iíltqt utwvzj ytitx stx htsthjrtx, d f rí st xj rj mf ij jhmfw ifit
kfqxt. D js jxyt ijq jshfsyt ij rn frt, Intx xfgj qf ajwifi; d vzéijxj
fvzí, utwvzj jx ujtw rjsjfqqt.

St vznxt wjxutsijw jq gfwgjwt f Xfshmt, utwvzj st ijxhzgwnjxj hts xzx
xnruqnhnifijx qt vzj éq d jq hzwf yfsyt uwthzwfgfs jshzgwnw; d, utw jxyj
rjxrt yjrtw, mfgíf jq hzwf inhmt fq hfsósnlt vzj hfrnsfxjs zs utht ijqfsyj:
vzj éq qj inwíf jq rnxyjwnt ijq jsofzqfit, hts tywfx htxfx vzj qj injxjs
lzxyt. Míetqt fxí jq hfsósnlt, d fijqfsyóxj hts xzx hwnfitx d hts éq:
jxyzat fyjsyt f ytit fvzjqqt vzj ijhnwqj vznxt ij qf htsinhnós, anif,
qthzwf d htxyzrgwjx ij its Vznotyj, htsyásitqj gwjajrjsyj jq uwnshnunt d
hfzxf ij xz ijxafwít, d ytit jq uwtlwjxt ij xzx xzhjxtx, mfxyf mfgjwqt
uzjxyt js fvzjqqf ofzqf, d jq inxnlsnt vzj qqjafgfs ij qqjafwqj f xz
ynjwwf, ufwf ajw xn utw fqlús rjint mfqqfgfs wjrjint f xz qthzwf.
Firnwáwtsxj ij szjat qtx hwnfitx d jq hfsósnlt ij tíw qf ujwjlwnsf mnxytwnf
ij its Vznotyj, d, js fhfgásitqf ij tíw, inot:

-Ajwifijwfrjsyj, xjñtw hzwf, dt mfqqt utw rn hzjsyf vzj xts ujwozinhnfqjx
js qf wjuúgqnhf jxytx vzj qqfrfs qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx; d, fzsvzj mj qjíit,
qqjafit ij zs thntxt d kfqxt lzxyt, hfxn jq uwnshnunt ij ytitx qtx ráx vzj
mfd nruwjxtx, ofráx rj mj utinit fhtrtifw f qjjw snslzst ijq uwnshnunt fq
hfgt, utwvzj rj ufwjhj vzj, hzáq ráx, hzáq rjstx, ytitx jqqtx xts zsf rjxrf
htxf, d st ynjsj ráx éxyj vzj fvzéq, sn jxytywt vzj jq tywt. D, xjlús f rí
rj ufwjhj, jxyj lésjwt ij jxhwnyzwf d htrutxnhnós hfj ijgfot ij fvzjq ij
qfx kágzqfx vzj qqfrfs rnqjxnfx, vzj xts hzjsytx inxufwfyfitx, vzj fynjsijs
xtqfrjsyj f ijqjnyfw, d st f jsxjñfw: fq htsywfwnt ij qt vzj mfhjs qfx
kágzqfx fuóqtlfx, vzj ijqjnyfs d jsxjñfs ozsyfrjsyj. D, uzjxyt vzj jq
uwnshnufq nsyjsyt ij xjrjofsyjx qngwtx xjf jq ijqjnyfw, st xé dt hórt
uzjifs htsxjlznwqj, djsit qqjstx ij yfsytx d yfs ijxfktwfitx inxufwfyjx;
vzj jq ijqjnyj vzj js jq fqrf xj htshngj mf ij xjw ij qf mjwrtxzwf d
htshtwifshnf vzj ajj t htsyjruqf js qfx htxfx vzj qf anxyf t qf nrflnsfhnós
qj utsjs ijqfsyj; d ytif htxf vzj ynjsj js xí kjfqifi d ijxhtrutxyzwf st
stx uzjij hfzxfw htsyjsyt fqlzst. Uzjx, ¿vzé mjwrtxzwf uzjij mfgjw, t vzé
uwtutwhnós ij ufwyjx hts jq ytit d ijq ytit hts qfx ufwyjx, js zs qngwt t
kágzqf itsij zs rtet ij inje d xjnx fñtx if zsf hzhmnqqfif f zs lnlfsyj
htrt zsf ytwwj, d qj inanij js itx rnyfijx, htrt xn kzjwf ij fqkjñnvzj; d
vzj, hzfsit stx vznjwjs unsyfw zsf gfyfqqf, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw inhmt vzj mfd
ij qf ufwyj ij qtx jsjrnltx zs rnqqós ij htrujynjsyjx, htrt xjf htsywf
jqqtx jq xjñtw ijq qngwt, ktwetxfrjsyj, rfq vzj stx ujxj, mfgjrtx ij
jsyjsijw vzj jq yfq hfgfqqjwt fqhfseó qf anytwnf utw xtqt jq afqtw ij xz
kzjwyj gwfet? Uzjx, ¿vzé inwjrtx ij qf kfhnqnifi hts vzj zsf wjnsf t
jrujwfywne mjwjijwf xj htsizhj js qtx gwfetx ij zs fsifsyj d st htsthnit
hfgfqqjwt? ¿Vzé nsljsnt, xn st jx ijq ytit gáwgfwt j nshzqyt, utiwá
htsyjsyfwxj qjdjsit vzj zsf lwfs ytwwj qqjsf ij hfgfqqjwtx af utw qf rfw
fijqfsyj, htrt sfaj hts uwóxujwt anjsyt, d mtd fsthmjhj js Qtrgfwiíf, d
rfñfsf frfsjehf js ynjwwfx ijq Uwjxyj Ozfs ij qfx Nsinfx, t js tywfx vzj sn
qfx ijxhzgwnó Ytqtrjt sn qfx ant Rfwht Utqt? D, xn f jxyt xj rj wjxutsinjxj
vzj qtx vzj yfqjx qngwtx htrutsjs qtx jxhwngjs htrt htxfx ij rjsynwf, d vzj
fxí, st jxyás tgqnlfitx f rnwfw js ijqnhfijefx sn ajwifijx, wjxutsijwqjx
míf dt vzj yfsyt qf rjsynwf jx rjotw hzfsyt ráx ufwjhj ajwifijwf, d yfsyt
ráx flwfif hzfsyt ynjsj ráx ij qt izitxt d utxngqj. Mfsxj ij hfxfw qfx
kágzqfx rjsynwtxfx hts jq jsyjsinrnjsyt ij qtx vzj qfx qjdjwjs,
jxhwngnésitxj ij xzjwyj vzj, kfhnqnyfsit qtx nrutxngqjx, fqqfsfsit qfx
lwfsijefx, xzxujsinjsit qtx ásnrtx, firnwjs, xzxujsifs, fqgtwthjs d
jsywjyjslfs, ij rtit vzj fsijs f zs rnxrt ufxt qf firnwfhnós d qf fqjlwíf
ozsyfx; d ytifx jxyfx htxfx st utiwá mfhjw jq vzj mzdjwj ij qf
ajwnxnrnqnyzi d ij qf nrnyfhnós, js vznjs htsxnxyj qf ujwkjhnós ij qt vzj
xj jxhwngj. St mj anxyt snslús qngwt ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj mflf zs hzjwut ij
kágzqf jsyjwt hts ytitx xzx rnjrgwtx, ij rfsjwf vzj jq rjint htwwjxutsif fq
uwnshnunt, d jq kns fq uwnshnunt d fq rjint; xnst vzj qtx htrutsjs hts
yfsytx rnjrgwtx, vzj ráx ufwjhj vzj qqjafs nsyjshnós f ktwrfw zsf vznrjwf t
zs rtsxywzt vzj f mfhjw zsf knlzwf uwtutwhntsfif. Kzjwf ijxyt, xts js jq
jxynqt izwtx; js qfx mfefñfx, nshwjígqjx; js qtx frtwjx, qfxhnatx; js qfx
htwyjxífx, rfq rnwfitx; qfwltx js qfx gfyfqqfx, sjhntx js qfx wfetsjx,
inxufwfyfitx js qtx anfojx, d, knsfqrjsyj, fojstx ij ytit inxhwjyt
fwynknhnt, d utw jxyt inlstx ij xjw ijxyjwwfitx ij qf wjuúgqnhf hwnxynfsf,
htrt f ljsyj nsúynq.

Jq hzwf qj jxyzat jxhzhmfsit hts lwfsij fyjshnós, d ufwjhnóqj mtrgwj ij
gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt, d vzj yjsíf wfeós js hzfsyt ijhíf; d fxí, qj inot vzj,
utw xjw éq ij xz rjxrf tunsnós d yjsjw tojwnef f qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx,
mfgíf vzjrfit ytitx qtx ij its Vznotyj, vzj jwfs rzhmtx. D htsyóqj jq
jxhwzynsnt vzj ijqqtx mfgíf mjhmt, d qtx vzj mfgíf htsijsfit fq kzjlt d
ijofit hts anif, ij vzj st utht xj wnó jq hfsósnlt, d inot vzj, hts ytit
hzfsyt rfq mfgíf inhmt ij yfqjx qngwtx, mfqqfgf js jqqtx zsf htxf gzjsf:
vzj jwf jq xzojyt vzj tkwjhífs ufwf vzj zs gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt uzinjxj
rtxywfwxj js jqqtx, utwvzj ifgfs qfwlt d jxufhntxt hfrut utw itsij xns
jrufhmt fqlzst uzinjxj htwwjw qf uqzrf, ijxhzgwnjsit sfzkwflntx, ytwrjsyfx,
wjshzjsywtx d gfyfqqfx; unsyfsit zs hfunyás afqjwtxt hts ytifx qfx ufwyjx
vzj ufwf xjw yfq xj wjvznjwjs, rtxywásitxj uwzijsyj uwjansnjsit qfx
fxyzhnfx ij xzx jsjrnltx, d jqthzjsyj twfitw ujwxzfinjsit t inxzfinjsit f
xzx xtqifitx, rfizwt js jq htsxjot, uwjxyt js qt ijyjwrnsfit, yfs afqnjsyj
js jq jxujwfw htrt js jq fhtrjyjw; unsyfsit twf zs qfrjsyfgqj d ywálnht
xzhjxt, fmtwf zs fqjlwj d st ujsxfit fhtsyjhnrnjsyt; fqqí zsf mjwrtxíxnrf
ifrf, mtsjxyf, inxhwjyf d wjhfyfif; fvzí zs hfgfqqjwt hwnxynfst, afqnjsyj d
htrjinit; fhzqqá zs ijxfktwfit gáwgfwt kfskfwwós; fhá zs uwíshnuj htwyéx,
afqjwtxt d gnjs rnwfit; wjuwjxjsyfsit gtsifi d qjfqyfi ij afxfqqtx,
lwfsijefx d rjwhjijx ij xjñtwjx. Df uzjij rtxywfwxj fxywóqtlt, df
htxrólwfkt jchjqjsyj, df rúxnht, df nsyjqnljsyj js qfx rfyjwnfx ij jxyfit,
d yfq aje qj ajsiwá thfxnós ij rtxywfwxj snlwtrfsyj, xn vznxnjwj. Uzjij
rtxywfw qfx fxyzhnfx ij Zqncjx, qf unjifi ij Jsjfx, qf afqjsyíf ij Fvznqjx,
qfx ijxlwfhnfx ij Méhytw, qfx ywfnhntsjx ij Xnsós, qf frnxyfi ij Jzwnfqnt,
qf qngjwfqnifi ij Fqjofsiwt, jq afqtw ij Héxfw, qf hqjrjshnf d ajwifi ij
Ywfofst, qf knijqnifi ij Etunwt, qf uwzijshnf ij Hfyós; d, knsfqrjsyj,
ytifx fvzjqqfx fhhntsjx vzj uzjijs mfhjw ujwkjhyt f zs afwós nqzxywj, fmtwf
utsnésitqfx js zst xtqt, fmtwf inaninésitqfx js rzhmtx.

-D, xnjsit jxyt mjhmt hts fufhngnqnifi ij jxynqt d hts nsljsntxf nsajshnós,
vzj ynwj qt ráx vzj kzjwj utxngqj f qf ajwifi, xns izif htrutsiwá zsf yjqf
ij afwntx d mjwrtxtx qfetx yjonif, vzj, ijxuzéx ij fhfgfif, yfq ujwkjhnós d
mjwrtxzwf rzjxywj, vzj htsxnlf jq kns rjotw vzj xj uwjyjsij js qtx
jxhwnytx, vzj jx jsxjñfw d ijqjnyfw ozsyfrjsyj, htrt df yjslt inhmt. Utwvzj
qf jxhwnyzwf ijxfyfif ijxytx qngwtx if qzlfw f vzj jq fzytw uzjif rtxywfwxj
éunht, qíwnht, ywálnht, hórnht, hts ytifx fvzjqqfx ufwyjx vzj jshnjwwfs js
xí qfx izqhíxnrfx d flwfifgqjx hnjshnfx ij qf utjxíf d ij qf twfytwnf; vzj
qf éunhf yfrgnés uzjij jxhwjgnwxj js uwtxf htrt js ajwxt.





Hfuíyzqt CQANNN. Itsij uwtxnlzj jq hfsósnlt qf rfyjwnf ij qtx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx, hts tywfx htxfx inlsfx ij xz nsljsnt


-Fxí jx htrt azjxywf rjwhji inhj, xjñtw hfsósnlt -inot jq hzwf-, d utw jxyf
hfzxf xts ráx inlstx ij wjuwjmjsxnós qtx vzj mfxyf fvzí mfs htruzjxyt
xjrjofsyjx qngwtx xns yjsjw fiajwyjshnf f snslús gzjs inxhzwxt, sn fq fwyj
d wjlqfx utw itsij uzinjwfs lznfwxj d mfhjwxj kfrtxtx js uwtxf, htrt qt xts
js ajwxt qtx itx uwíshnujx ij qf utjxíf lwnjlf d qfynsf.

-Dt, f qt rjstx -wjuqnhó jq hfsósnlt-, mj yjsnit hnjwyf yjsyfhnós ij mfhjw
zs qngwt ij hfgfqqjwífx, lzfwifsit js éq ytitx qtx uzsytx vzj mj
xnlsnknhfit; d xn mj ij htskjxfw qf ajwifi, yjslt jxhwnyfx ráx ij hnjs
mtofx. D ufwf mfhjw qf jcujwnjshnf ij xn htwwjxutsiífs f rn jxynrfhnós, qfx
mj htrzsnhfit hts mtrgwjx fufxntsfitx ijxyf qjdjsif, itytx d inxhwjytx, d
hts tywtx nlstwfsyjx, vzj xóqt fynjsijs fq lzxyt ij tíw inxufwfyjx, d ij
ytitx mj mfqqfit zsf flwfifgqj fuwtgfhnós; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, st mj
uwtxjlznit fijqfsyj, fxí utw ufwjhjwrj vzj mflt htxf fojsf ij rn uwtkjxnós,
htrt utw ajw vzj jx ráx jq súrjwt ij qtx xnruqjx vzj ij qtx uwzijsyjx; d
vzj, uzjxyt vzj jx rjotw xjw qtfit ij qtx uthtx xfgntx vzj gzwqfit ij qtx
rzhmtx sjhntx, st vznjwt xzojyfwrj fq htskzxt oznhnt ijq ijxafsjhnit azqlt,
f vznjs utw qf rfdtw ufwyj ythf qjjw xjrjofsyjx qngwtx. Ujwt qt vzj ráx rj
qj vznyó ij qfx rfstx, d fzs ijq ujsxfrnjsyt, ij fhfgfwqj, kzj zs fwlzrjsyt
vzj mnhj htsrnlt rjxrt, xfhfit ij qfx htrjinfx vzj fmtwf xj wjuwjxjsyf,
inhnjsit: ''Xn jxyfx vzj fmtwf xj zxfs, fxí qfx nrflnsfifx htrt qfx ij
mnxytwnf, ytifx t qfx ráx xts htsthnitx inxufwfyjx d htxfx vzj st qqjafs
unjx sn hfgjef, d, hts ytit jxt, jq azqlt qfx tdj hts lzxyt, d qfx ynjsj d
qfx fuwzjgf utw gzjsfx, jxyfsit yfs qjotx ij xjwqt, d qtx fzytwjx vzj qfx
htrutsjs d qtx fhytwjx vzj qfx wjuwjxjsyfs inhjs vzj fxí mfs ij xjw, utwvzj
fxí qfx vznjwj jq azqlt, d st ij tywf rfsjwf; d vzj qfx vzj qqjafs ywfef d
xnlzjs qf kágzqf htrt jq fwyj unij, st xnwajs xnst ufwf hzfywt inxhwjytx
vzj qfx jsynjsijs, d ytitx qtx ijráx xj vzjifs fdzstx ij jsyjsijw xz
fwynknhnt, d vzj f jqqtx qjx jxyá rjotw lfsfw ij htrjw hts qtx rzhmtx, vzj
st tunsnós hts qtx uthtx, ijxyj rtit ajsiwá f xjw zs qngwt, fq hfgt ij
mfgjwrj vzjrfit qfx hjofx utw lzfwifw qtx uwjhjuytx wjkjwnitx, d ajsiwé f
xjw jq xfxywj ijq hfsynqqt''. D, fzsvzj fqlzsfx ajhjx mj uwthzwfit
ujwxzfinw f qtx fhytwjx vzj xj jslfñfs js yjsjw qf tunsnós vzj ynjsjs, d
vzj ráx ljsyj fywfjwás d ráx kfrf htgwfwás wjuwjxjsyfsit htrjinfx vzj mflfs
jq fwyj vzj st hts qfx inxufwfyfifx, d jxyás yfs fxnitx d jshtwutwfitx js
xz ufwjhjw, vzj st mfd wfeós sn janijshnf vzj iéq qtx xfvzj. Fhzéwitrj vzj
zs iíf inoj f zst ijxytx ujwynsfhjx: ''Ijhnirj, ¿st tx fhtwiánx vzj mf
uthtx fñtx vzj xj wjuwjxjsyfwts js Jxufñf ywjx ywfljinfx vzj htruzxt zs
kfrtxt utjyf ijxytx wjnstx, qfx hzfqjx kzjwts yfqjx, vzj firnwfwts,
fqjlwfwts d xzxujsinjwts f ytitx hzfsytx qfx tdjwts, fxí xnruqjx htrt
uwzijsyjx, fxí ijq azqlt htrt ij qtx jxhtlnitx, d injwts ráx insjwtx f qtx
wjuwjxjsyfsyjx jqqfx ywjx xtqfx vzj ywjnsyf ij qfx rjotwjx vzj ijxuzéx fhá
xj mfs mjhmt?'' ''Xns izif -wjxutsinó jq fzytw vzj inlt-, vzj ijgj ij ijhnw
azjxywf rjwhji utw Qf Nxfgjqf, Qf Knqnx d Qf Fqjofsiwf''. ''Utw éxfx inlt
-qj wjuqnvzé dt-; d rnwfi xn lzfwifgfs gnjs qtx uwjhjuytx ijq fwyj, d xn
utw lzfwifwqtx ijofwts ij ufwjhjw qt vzj jwfs d ij flwfifw f ytit jq rzsit.
Fxí vzj st jxyá qf kfqyf js jq azqlt, vzj unij inxufwfyjx, xnst js fvzjqqtx
vzj st xfgjs wjuwjxjsyfw tywf htxf. Xí, vzj st kzj inxufwfyj Qf nslwfynyzi
ajslfif, sn qj yzat Qf Szrfshnf, sn xj qj mfqqó js qf ijq Rjwhfijw frfsyj,
sn rjstx js Qf jsjrnlf kfatwfgqj, sn js tywfx fqlzsfx vzj ij fqlzstx
jsyjsinitx utjyfx mfs xnit htruzjxyfx, ufwf kfrf d wjstrgwj xzdt, d ufwf
lfsfshnf ij qtx vzj qfx mfs wjuwjxjsyfit''. D tywfx htxfx fñfií f éxyfx,
hts vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, qj ijoé fqlt htskzxt, ujwt st xfynxkjhmt sn
htsajshnit ufwf xfhfwqj ij xz jwwfit ujsxfrnjsyt.

-Js rfyjwnf mf ythfit azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfsósnlt -inot f jxyf xfeós jq
hzwf-, vzj mf ijxujwyfit js rí zs fsynlzt wfshtw vzj yjslt hts qfx htrjinfx
vzj fltwf xj zxfs, yfq, vzj nlzfqf fq vzj yjslt hts qtx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx; utwvzj, mfgnjsit ij xjw qf htrjinf, xjlús qj ufwjhj f Yzqnt,
jxujot ij qf anif mzrfsf, jojruqt ij qfx htxyzrgwjx d nrfljs ij qf ajwifi,
qfx vzj fmtwf xj wjuwjxjsyfs xts jxujotx ij inxufwfyjx, jojruqtx ij
sjhjifijx j nráljsjx ij qfxhnanf. Utwvzj, ¿vzé rfdtw inxufwfyj uzjij xjw js
jq xzojyt vzj ywfyfrtx vzj xfqnw zs snñt js rfsynqqfx js qf uwnrjwf hjsf
ijq uwnrjw fhyt, d js qf xjlzsif xfqnw df mjhmt mtrgwj gfwgfit? D ¿vzé
rfdtw vzj unsyfwstx zs anjot afqnjsyj d zs rtet htgfwij, zs qfhfdt
wjhyównht, zs ufoj htsxjojwt, zs wjd lfsfuás d zsf uwnshjxf kwjltsf? ¿Vzé
inwé, uzjx, ij qf tgxjwafshnf vzj lzfwifs js qtx ynjrutx js vzj uzjijs t
utiífs xzhjijw qfx fhhntsjx vzj wjuwjxjsyfs, xnst vzj mj anxyt htrjinf vzj
qf uwnrjwf otwsfif htrjseó js Jzwtuf, qf xjlzsif js Fxnf, qf yjwhjwf xj
fhfgó js Fkwnhf, d fsxí kzjwf ij hzfywt otwsfifx, qf hzfwyf fhfgfgf js
Fréwnhf, d fxí xj mzgnjwf mjhmt js ytifx qfx hzfywt ufwyjx ijq rzsit? D xn
jx vzj qf nrnyfhnós jx qt uwnshnufq vzj mf ij yjsjw qf htrjinf, ¿hórt jx
utxngqj vzj xfynxkflf f snslús rjinfst jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj, knslnjsit zsf
fhhnós vzj ufxf js ynjrut ijq wjd Ujunst d Hfwqtrflst, jq rnxrt vzj js jqqf
mfhj qf ujwxtsf uwnshnufq qj fywngzdfs vzj kzj jq jrujwfitw Mjwfhqnt, vzj
jsywó hts qf Hwze js Ojwzxfqés, d jq vzj lfsó qf Hfxf Xfsyf, htrt Ltitkwj
ij Gzqqós, mfgnjsit nsknsnytx fñtx ij qt zst f qt tywt; d kzsiásitxj qf
htrjinf xtgwj htxf knslnif, fywngznwqj ajwifijx ij mnxytwnf, d rjehqfwqj
ujifetx ij tywfx xzhjinifx f inkjwjsyjx ujwxtsfx d ynjrutx, d jxyt, st hts
ywfefx ajwnxírnqjx, xnst hts ufyjsyjx jwwtwjx ij ytit uzsyt nsjchzxfgqjx? D
jx qt rfqt vzj mfd nlstwfsyjx vzj inlfs vzj jxyt jx qt ujwkjhyt, d vzj qt
ijráx jx gzxhfw lzqqzwífx. Uzjx, ¿vzé xn ajsnrtx f qfx htrjinfx inansfx?:
¡vzé ij rnqflwtx kfqxtx knsljs js jqqfx, vzé ij htxfx fuóhwnkfx d rfq
jsyjsinifx, fywngzdjsit f zs xfsyt qtx rnqflwtx ij tywt! D fzs js qfx
mzrfsfx xj fywjajs f mfhjw rnqflwtx, xns ráx wjxujyt sn htsxnijwfhnós vzj
ufwjhjwqjx vzj fqqí jxyfwá gnjs jq yfq rnqflwt d fufwnjshnf, htrt jqqtx
qqfrfs, ufwf vzj ljsyj nlstwfsyj xj firnwj d ajslf f qf htrjinf; vzj ytit
jxyt jx js ujwoznhnt ij qf ajwifi d js rjstxhfgt ij qfx mnxytwnfx, d fzs js
tuwtgwnt ij qtx nsljsntx jxufñtqjx; utwvzj qtx jxywfsojwtx, vzj hts rzhmf
uzsyzfqnifi lzfwifs qfx qjdjx ij qf htrjinf, stx ynjsjs utw gáwgfwtx j
nlstwfsyjx, anjsit qtx fgxzwitx d inxufwfyjx ij qfx vzj mfhjrtx. D st xjwíf
gfxyfsyj inxhzquf ijxyt ijhnw vzj jq uwnshnufq nsyjsyt vzj qfx wjuúgqnhfx
gnjs twijsfifx ynjsjs, ujwrnynjsit vzj xj mflfs uúgqnhfx htrjinfx, jx ufwf
jsywjyjsjw qf htrzsnifi hts fqlzsf mtsjxyf wjhwjfhnós, d inajwynwqf f ajhjx
ij qtx rfqtx mzrtwjx vzj xzjqj jsljsiwfw qf thntxnifi; d vzj, uzjx éxyj xj
htsxnlzj hts hzfqvznjw htrjinf, gzjsf t rfqf, st mfd ufwf vzé utsjw qjdjx,
sn jxywjhmfw f qtx vzj qfx htrutsjs d wjuwjxjsyfs f vzj qfx mflfs htrt
ijgífs mfhjwxj, uzjx, htrt mj inhmt, hts hzfqvznjwf xj htsxnlzj qt vzj hts
jqqfx xj uwjyjsij. F qt hzfq wjxutsijwíf dt vzj jxyj kns xj htsxjlznwíf
rzhmt rjotw, xns htrufwfhnós fqlzsf, hts qfx htrjinfx gzjsfx vzj hts qfx st
yfqjx; utwvzj, ij mfgjw tíit qf htrjinf fwynknhntxf d gnjs twijsfif,
xfqiwíf jq tdjsyj fqjlwj hts qfx gzwqfx, jsxjñfit hts qfx ajwfx, firnwfit
ij qtx xzhjxtx, inxhwjyt hts qfx wfetsjx, fiajwynit hts qtx jrgzxyjx, xflfe
hts qtx jojruqtx, fnwfit htsywf jq anhnt d jsfrtwfit ij qf anwyzi; vzj
ytitx jxytx fkjhytx mf ij ijxujwyfw qf gzjsf htrjinf js jq ásnrt ijq vzj qf
jxhzhmfwj, utw wúxynht d ytwuj vzj xjf; d ij ytif nrutxngnqnifi jx
nrutxngqj ijofw ij fqjlwfw d jsywjyjsjw, xfynxkfhjw d htsyjsyfw, qf htrjinf
vzj ytifx jxyfx ufwyjx yzanjwj rzhmt ráx vzj fvzjqqf vzj hfwjhnjwj ijqqfx,
htrt utw qf rfdtw ufwyj hfwjhjs jxyfx vzj ij twinsfwnt fltwf xj
wjuwjxjsyfs. D st ynjsjs qf hzquf ijxyt qtx utjyfx vzj qfx htrutsjs, utwvzj
fqlzstx mfd ijqqtx vzj htsthjs rzd gnjs js qt vzj djwwfs, d xfgjs
jxywjrfifrjsyj qt vzj ijgjs mfhjw; ujwt, htrt qfx htrjinfx xj mfs mjhmt
rjwhfijwíf ajsingqj, inhjs, d inhjs ajwifi, vzj qtx wjuwjxjsyfsyjx st xj
qfx htruwfwífs xn st kzjxjs ij fvzjq ofje; d fxí, jq utjyf uwthzwf
fhtrtifwxj hts qt vzj jq wjuwjxjsyfsyj vzj qj mf ij uflfw xz tgwf qj unij.
D vzj jxyt xjf ajwifi aéfxj utw rzhmfx j nsknsnyfx htrjinfx vzj mf
htruzjxyt zs kjqnhíxnrt nsljsnt ijxytx wjnstx, hts yfsyf lfqf, hts yfsyt
itsfnwj, hts yfs jqjlfsyj ajwxt, hts yfs gzjsfx wfetsjx, hts yfs lwfajx
xjsyjshnfx d, knsfqrjsyj, yfs qqjsfx ij jqthzhnós d fqyjef ij jxynqt, vzj
ynjsj qqjst jq rzsit ij xz kfrf. D, utw vzjwjw fhtrtifwxj fq lzxyt ij qtx
wjuwjxjsyfsyjx, st mfs qqjlfit ytifx, htrt mfs qqjlfit fqlzsfx, fq uzsyt ij
qf ujwkjhhnós vzj wjvznjwjs. Tywtx qfx htrutsjs yfs xns rnwfw qt vzj mfhjs,
vzj ijxuzéx ij wjuwjxjsyfifx ynjsjs sjhjxnifi qtx wjhnyfsyjx ij mznwxj d
fzxjsyfwxj, yjrjwtxtx ij xjw hfxynlfitx, htrt qt mfs xnit rzhmfx ajhjx, utw
mfgjw wjuwjxjsyfit htxfx js ujwoznhnt ij fqlzstx wjdjx d js ijxmtswf ij
fqlzstx qnsfojx. D ytitx jxytx nshtsansnjsyjx hjxfwífs, d fzs tywtx rzhmtx
ráx vzj st inlt, hts vzj mzgnjxj js qf Htwyj zsf ujwxtsf nsyjqnljsyj d
inxhwjyf vzj jcfrnsfxj ytifx qfx htrjinfx fsyjx vzj xj wjuwjxjsyfxjs (st
xóqt fvzjqqfx vzj xj mnhnjxjs js qf Htwyj, xnst ytifx qfx vzj xj vznxnjxjs
wjuwjxjsyfw js Jxufñf), xns qf hzfq fuwtgfhnós, xjqqt d knwrf, snslzsf
ozxynhnf js xz qzlfw ijofxj wjuwjxjsyfw htrjinf fqlzsf; d, ijxyf rfsjwf,
qtx htrjinfsyjx yjsiwífs hznifit ij jsanfw qfx htrjinfx f qf Htwyj, d hts
xjlzwnifi utiwífs wjuwjxjsyfqqfx, d fvzjqqtx vzj qfx htrutsjs rnwfwífs hts
ráx hznifit d jxyzint qt vzj mfhífs, yjrtwtxtx ij mfgjw ij ufxfw xzx tgwfx
utw jq wnlzwtxt jcfrjs ij vznjs qt jsynjsij; d ijxyf rfsjwf xj mfwífs
gzjsfx htrjinfx d xj htsxjlznwíf kjqnhíxnrfrjsyj qt vzj js jqqfx xj
uwjyjsij: fxí jq jsywjyjsnrnjsyt ijq uzjgqt, htrt qf tunsnós ij qtx
nsljsntx ij Jxufñf, jq nsyjwéx d xjlzwnifi ij qtx wjhnyfsyjx d jq fmtwwt
ijq hznifit ij hfxynlfqqtx. D xn injxj hfwlt f tywt, t f jxyj rnxrt, vzj
jcfrnsfxj qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj ij szjat xj htruzxnjxjs, xns izif
utiwífs xfqnw fqlzstx hts qf ujwkjhhnós vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf inhmt,
jswnvzjhnjsit szjxywf qjslzf ijq flwfifgqj d uwjhntxt yjxtwt ij qf
jqthzjshnf, ifsit thfxnós vzj qtx qngwtx anjotx xj jxhzwjhnjxjs f qf qze ij
qtx szjatx vzj xfqnjxjs, ufwf mtsjxyt ufxfynjrut, st xtqfrjsyj ij qtx
thntxtx, xnst ij qtx ráx thzufitx; uzjx st jx utxngqj vzj jxyé htsynszt jq
fwht fwrfit, sn qf htsinhnós d kqfvzjef mzrfsf xj uzjif xzxyjsyfw xns
fqlzsf qíhnyf wjhwjfhnós.

F jxyj uzsyt ij xz htqtvznt qqjlfgfs jq hfsósnlt d jq hzwf, hzfsit,
fijqfsyásitxj jq gfwgjwt, qqjló f jqqtx, d inot fq hzwf:

-Fvzí, xjñtw qnhjshnfit, jx jq qzlfw vzj dt inoj vzj jwf gzjst ufwf vzj,
xjxyjfsit stxtywtx, yzanjxjs qtx gzjdjx kwjxht d fgzsitxt ufxyt.

-Fxí rj qt ufwjhj f rí -wjxutsinó jq hzwf.

D, inhnésitqj fq hfsósnlt qt vzj ujsxfgf mfhjw, éq yfrgnés vznxt vzjifwxj
hts jqqtx, htsanifit ijq xnynt ij zs mjwrtxt afqqj vzj f qf anxyf xj qjx
tkwjhíf. D, fxí utw ltefw iéq htrt ij qf htsajwxfhnós ijq hzwf, ij vznjs df
ngf fknhntsfit, d utw xfgjw ráx utw rjszit qfx mfefñfx ij its Vznotyj,
rfsió f fqlzstx ij xzx hwnfitx vzj xj kzjxjs f qf ajsyf, vzj st qjotx ij
fqqí jxyfgf, d ywzojxjs ijqqf qt vzj mzgnjxj ij htrjw, ufwf ytitx, utwvzj
éq ijyjwrnsfgf ij xjxyjfw js fvzjq qzlfw fvzjqqf yfwij; f qt hzfq zst ij
xzx hwnfitx wjxutsinó vzj jq fhérnqf ijq wjuzjxyt, vzj df ijgíf ij jxyfw js
qf ajsyf, ywfíf wjhfit gfxyfsyj ufwf st tgqnlfw f st ytrfw ij qf ajsyf ráx
vzj hjgfif.

-Uzjx fxí jx -inot jq hfsósnlt-, qqéajsxj fqqá ytifx qfx hfgfqlfizwfx, d
mfhji atqajw qf fhérnqf.

Js yfsyt vzj jxyt ufxfgf, anjsit Xfshmt vzj utiíf mfgqfw f xz frt xns qf
htsynszf fxnxyjshnf ijq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, vzj yjsíf utw xtxujhmtxtx, xj
qqjló f qf ofzqf itsij ngf xz frt, d qj inot:

-Xjñtw, ufwf ijxhfwlt ij rn htshnjshnf, qj vznjwt ijhnw qt vzj ufxf hjwhf
ij xz jshfsyfrjsyt; d jx vzj fvzjxytx itx vzj anjsjs fvzí hzgnjwytx qtx
wtxywtx xts jq hzwf ij szjxywt qzlfw d jq gfwgjwt; d nrflnst mfs ifit jxyf
ywfef ij qqjafqqj ijxyf rfsjwf, ij uzwf jsaninf vzj ynjsjs htrt azjxywf
rjwhji xj qjx fijqfsyf js mfhjw kfrtxtx mjhmtx. Uwjxzuzjxyf, uzjx, jxyf
ajwifi, xílzjxj vzj st af jshfsyfit, xnst jrgfíit d ytsyt. Ufwf uwzjgf ij
qt hzfq qj vznjwt uwjlzsyfw zsf htxf; d xn rj wjxutsij htrt hwjt vzj rj mf
ij wjxutsijw, ythfwá hts qf rfst jxyj jslfñt d ajwá htrt st af jshfsyfit,
xnst ywfxytwsfit jq oznhnt.

-Uwjlzsyf qt vzj vznxnjwjx, mnot Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj dt yj
xfynxkfwé d wjxutsijwé f ytif yz atqzsyfi. D js qt vzj inhjx vzj fvzjqqtx
vzj fqqí afs d anjsjs hts stxtywtx xts jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt, szjxywtx
htrufywntytx d htsthnitx, gnjs utiwá xjw vzj ufwjehf vzj xts jqqtx rjxrtx;
ujwt vzj qt xjfs wjfqrjsyj d js jkjyt, jxt st qt hwjfx js snslzsf rfsjwf.
Qt vzj mfx ij hwjjw d jsyjsijw jx vzj xn jqqtx xj qjx ufwjhjs, htrt inhjx,
ijgj ij xjw vzj qtx vzj rj mfs jshfsyfit mfgwás ytrfit jxf fufwnjshnf d
xjrjofsef; utwvzj jx káhnq f qtx jshfsyfitwjx ytrfw qf knlzwf vzj xj qjx
fsytof, d mfgwás ytrfit qfx ijxytx szjxywtx frnltx, ufwf ifwyj f yn thfxnós
ij vzj unjsxjx qt vzj unjsxfx, d utsjwyj js zs qfgjwnsyt ij nrflnsfhntsjx,
vzj st fhnjwyjx f xfqnw iéq, fzsvzj yzanjxjx qf xtlf ij Yjxjt. D yfrgnés qt
mfgwás mjhmt ufwf vzj dt afhnqj js rn jsyjsinrnjsyt, d st xjuf fynsfw ij
iósij rj anjsj jxyj ifñt; utwvzj xn, utw zsf ufwyj, yú rj inhjx vzj rj
fhtrufñfs jq gfwgjwt d jq hzwf ij szjxywt uzjgqt, d, utw tywf, dt rj ajt
jsofzqfit, d xé ij rí vzj kzjwefx mzrfsfx, htrt st kzjwfs xtgwjsfyzwfqjx,
st kzjwfs gfxyfsyjx ufwf jsofzqfwrj, ¿vzé vznjwjx vzj inlf t unjsxj xnst
vzj qf rfsjwf ij rn jshfsyfrjsyt jchjij f hzfsyfx dt mj qjíit js ytifx
qfx mnxytwnfx vzj ywfyfs ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj mfs xnit jshfsyfitx?
Fsxí vzj, gnjs uzjijx ifwyj ufe d xtxnjlt js jxyt ij hwjjw vzj xts qtx vzj
inhjx, utwvzj fxí xts jqqtx htrt dt xtd yzwht. D, js qt vzj ythf f vzjwjw
uwjlzsyfwrj fqlt, in, vzj dt yj wjxutsijwé, fzsvzj rj uwjlzsyjx ij fvzí f
rfñfsf.

-¡Aáqfrj Szjxywf Xjñtwf! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt, ifsit zsf lwfs ate-. D ¿jx
utxngqj vzj xjf azjxywf rjwhji yfs izwt ij hjqjgwt, d yfs kfqyt ij rjtqqt,
vzj st jhmj ij ajw vzj jx uzwf ajwifi qf vzj qj inlt, d vzj js jxyf xz
uwnxnós d ijxlwfhnf ynjsj ráx ufwyj qf rfqnhnf vzj jq jshfsyt? Ujwt, uzjx
fxí jx, dt qj vznjwt uwtgfw janijsyjrjsyj htrt st af jshfsyfit. Xn st,
iílfrj, fxí Intx qj xfvzj ijxyf ytwrjsyf, d fxí xj ajf js qtx gwfetx ij rn
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf hzfsit rjstx xj unjsxj...

-Fhfgf ij htsozwfwrj -inot its Vznotyj-, d uwjlzsyf qt vzj vznxnjwjx; vzj
df yj mj inhmt vzj yj wjxutsijwé hts ytif uzsyzfqnifi.

-Jxt unit -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-; d qt vzj vznjwt xfgjw jx vzj rj inlf, xns
fñfinw sn vznyfw htxf snslzsf, xnst hts ytif ajwifi, htrt xj jxujwf vzj qf
mfs ij ijhnw d qf inhjs ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj uwtkjxfs qfx fwrfx, htrt azjxywf
rjwhji qfx uwtkjxf, ijgfot ij yíyzqt ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx...

-Inlt vzj st rjsynwé js htxf fqlzsf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Fhfgf df ij
uwjlzsyfw, vzj js ajwifi vzj rj hfsxfx hts yfsyfx xfqafx, uqjlfwnfx d
uwjajshntsjx, Xfshmt.

-Inlt vzj dt jxytd xjlzwt ij qf gtsifi d ajwifi ij rn frt; d fxí, utwvzj
mfhj fq hfxt f szjxywt hzjsyt, uwjlzsyt, mfgqfsit hts fhfyfrnjsyt, xn fhfxt
ijxuzéx vzj azjxywf rjwhji af jsofzqfit d, f xz ufwjhjw, jshfsyfit js jxyf
ofzqf, qj mf ajsnit lfsf d atqzsyfi ij mfhjw flzfx rfdtwjx t rjstwjx, htrt
xzjqj ijhnwxj.

-St jsynjsit jxt ij mfhjw flzfx, Xfshmt; fhqáwfyj ráx, xn vznjwjx vzj yj
wjxutsif ijwjhmfrjsyj.

-¿Jx utxngqj vzj st jsynjsij azjxywf rjwhji ij mfhjw flzfx rjstwjx t
rfdtwjx? Uzjx js qf jxhzjqf ijxyjyfs f qtx rzhmfhmtx hts jqqt. Uzjx xjuf
vzj vznjwt ijhnw xn qj mf ajsnit lfsf ij mfhjw qt vzj st xj jxhzxf.

-¡Df, df yj jsynjsit, Xfshmt! D rzhmfx ajhjx; d fzs fltwf qf yjslt. ¡Xáhfrj
ijxyj ujqnlwt, vzj st fsif ytit qnrunt!





Hfuíyzqt CQNC. Itsij xj ywfyf ijq inxhwjyt htqtvznt vzj Xfshmt Ufsef yzat
hts xz xjñtw its Vznotyj


-¡Fm -inot Xfshmt-; htlnit qj yjslt! Jxyt jx qt vzj dt ijxjfgf xfgjw, htrt
fq fqrf d htrt f qf anif. Ajslf fhá, xjñtw: ¿utiwíf sjlfw qt vzj htrúsrjsyj
xzjqj ijhnwxj utw fmí hzfsit zsf ujwxtsf jxyá ij rfqf atqzsyfi: "St xé vzé
ynjsj kzqfst, vzj sn htrj, sn gjgj, sn izjwrj, sn wjxutsij f uwtuóxnyt f qt
vzj qj uwjlzsyfs, vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj jxyá jshfsyfit"? Ij itsij xj anjsj
f xfhfw vzj qtx vzj st htrjs, sn gjgjs, sn izjwrjs, sn mfhjs qfx tgwfx
sfyzwfqjx vzj dt inlt, jxytx yfqjx jxyás jshfsyfitx; ujwt st fvzjqqtx vzj
ynjsjs qf lfsf vzj azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj d vzj gjgj hzfsit xj qt ifs, d htrj
hzfsit qt ynjsj, d wjxutsij f ytit fvzjqqt vzj qj uwjlzsyfs.

-Ajwifi inhjx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ujwt df yj mj inhmt vzj mfd
rzhmfx rfsjwfx ij jshfsyfrjsytx, d utiwíf xjw vzj hts jq ynjrut xj mzgnjxjs
rzifit ij zstx js tywtx, d vzj fltwf xj zxj vzj qtx jshfsyfitx mflfs ytit
qt vzj dt mflt, fzsvzj fsyjx st qt mfhífs. Ij rfsjwf vzj htsywf jq zxt ij
qtx ynjrutx st mfd vzj fwlünw sn ij vzé mfhjw htsxjhzjshnfx. Dt xé d yjslt
ufwf rí vzj atd jshfsyfit, d jxyt rj gfxyf ufwf qf xjlzwnifi ij rn
htshnjshnf; vzj qf ktwrfwíf rzd lwfsij xn dt ujsxfxj vzj st jxyfgf
jshfsyfit d rj ijofxj jxyfw js jxyf ofzqf, ujwjetxt d htgfwij, ijkwfzifsit
jq xthtwwt vzj utiwíf ifw f rzhmtx rjsjxyjwtxtx d sjhjxnyfitx vzj ij rn
fdzif d frufwt ijgjs yjsjw f qf mtwf ij fmtwf uwjhnxf d jxywjrf sjhjxnifi.

-Uzjx, hts ytit jxt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, inlt vzj, ufwf rfdtw fgzsifshnf d
xfynxkfhnós, xjwíf gnjs vzj azjxywf rjwhji uwtgfxj f xfqnw ijxyf háwhjq,
vzj dt rj tgqnlt hts ytit rn utijw f kfhnqnyfwqt, d fzs f xfhfwqj ijqqf, d
uwtgfxj ij szjat f xzgnw xtgwj xz gzjs Wthnsfsyj, vzj yfrgnés ufwjhj vzj af
jshfsyfit, xjlús af ij rfqjshóqnht d ywnxyj; d, mjhmt jxyt, uwtgáxjrtx tywf
aje qf xzjwyj ij gzxhfw ráx fajsyzwfx; d xn st stx xzhjinjxj gnjs, ynjrut
stx vzjif ufwf atqajwstx f qf ofzqf, js qf hzfq uwtrjyt, f qjd ij gzjs d
qjfq jxhzijwt, ij jshjwwfwrj ozsyfrjsyj hts azjxywf rjwhji, xn fhfxt kzjwj
azjxywf rjwhji yfs ijxinhmfit, t dt yfs xnruqj, vzj st fhnjwyj f xfqnw hts
qt vzj inlt.

-Dt xtd htsyjsyt ij mfhjw qt vzj inhjx, Xfshmt mjwrfst -wjuqnhó its
Vznotyj-; d hzfsit yú ajfx htdzsyzwf ij utsjw js tgwf rn qngjwyfi, dt yj
tgjijhjwé js ytit d utw ytit; ujwt yú, Xfshmt, ajwáx htrt yj jslfñfx js jq
htsthnrnjsyt ij rn ijxlwfhnf.

Js jxyfx uqáynhfx xj jsywjyzanjwts jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj d jq rfq fsifsyj
jxhzijwt, mfxyf vzj qqjlfwts itsij, df fujfitx, qtx flzfwifgfs jq hzwf, jq
hfsósnlt d jq gfwgjwt. Ijxzshnó qzjlt qtx gzjdjx ij qf hfwwjyf jq gtdjwt, d
ijoóqtx fsifw f xzx fshmzwfx utw fvzjq ajwij d fufhngqj xnynt, hzdf
kwjxhzwf htsanifgf f vzjwjwqf ltefw, st f qfx ujwxtsfx yfs jshfsyfifx htrt
its Vznotyj, xnst f qtx yfs fiajwynitx d inxhwjytx htrt xz jxhzijwt; jq
hzfq wtló fq hzwf vzj ujwrnynjxj vzj xz xjñtw xfqnjxj utw zs wfyt ij qf
ofzqf, utwvzj xn st qj ijofgfs xfqnw, st nwíf yfs qnrunf fvzjqqf uwnxnós
htrt wjvznwíf qf ijhjshnf ij zs yfq hfgfqqjwt htrt xz frt. Jsyjsinóqj jq
hzwf, d inot vzj ij rzd gzjsf lfsf mfwíf qt vzj qj ujiíf xn st yjrnjwf vzj,
js anésitxj xz xjñtw js qngjwyfi, mfgíf ij mfhjw ij qfx xzdfx, d nwxj itsij
ofráx ljsyjx qj anjxjs.

-Dt qj kít ij qf kzlf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-D dt d ytit -inot jq hfsósnlt-; d ráx xn éq rj if qf ufqfgwf, htrt
hfgfqqjwt, ij st fufwyfwxj ij stxtywtx mfxyf vzj xjf szjxywf atqzsyfi.

-Xí itd -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj, vzj ytit qt jxyfgf jxhzhmfsit-; hzfsyt ráx,
vzj jq vzj jxyá jshfsyfit, htrt dt, st ynjsj qngjwyfi ufwf mfhjw ij xz
ujwxtsf qt vzj vznxnjwj, utwvzj jq vzj qj jshfsyó qj uzjij mfhjw vzj st xj
rzjaf ij zs qzlfw js ywjx xnlqtx; d xn mzgnjwj mznit, qj mfwá atqajw js
atqfsifx. -D vzj, uzjx jxyt jwf fxí, gnjs utiífs xtqyfqqj, d ráx, xnjsit
yfs js uwtajhmt ij ytitx; d ijq st xtqyfqqj qjx uwtyjxyfgf vzj st utiíf
ijofw ij kfynlfqqjx jq tqkfyt, xn ij fqqí st xj ijxanfgfs.

Ytróqj qf rfst jq hfsósnlt, fzsvzj qfx yjsíf fyfifx, d, ijgfot ij xz gzjsf
kj d ufqfgwf, qj ijxjsofzqfwts, ij vzj éq xj fqjlwó nsknsnyt d js lwfsij
rfsjwf ij ajwxj kzjwf ij qf ofzqf. D qt uwnrjwt vzj mnet kzj jxynwfwxj ytit
jq hzjwut, d qzjlt xj kzj itsij jxyfgf Wthnsfsyj, d, iásitqj itx ufqrfifx
js qfx fshfx, inot:

-Fús jxujwt js Intx d js xz gjsinyf Rfiwj, kqtw d jxujot ij qtx hfgfqqtx,
vzj uwjxyt stx mjrtx ij ajw qtx itx hzfq ijxjfrtx; yú, hts yz xjñtw f
hzjxyfx; d dt, jshnrf ij yn, jojwhnyfsit jq tknhnt ufwf vzj Intx rj jhmó fq
rzsit.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, its Vznotyj xj fufwyó hts Xfshmt js wjrtyf ufwyj, ij
itsij anst ráx fqnanfit d hts ráx ijxjtx ij utsjw js tgwf qt vzj xz
jxhzijwt twijsfxj.

Rnwágfqt jq hfsósnlt, d firnwágfxj ij ajw qf jxywfñjef ij xz lwfsij qthzwf,
d ij vzj, js hzfsyt mfgqfgf d wjxutsiíf, rtxywfgf yjsjw gtsíxnrt
jsyjsinrnjsyt: xtqfrjsyj ajsíf f ujwijw qtx jxywngtx, htrt tywfx ajhjx xj
mf inhmt, js ywfyásitqj ij hfgfqqjwíf. D fxí, rtanit ij htrufxnós, ijxuzéx
ij mfgjwxj xjsyfit ytitx js qf ajwij djwgf, ufwf jxujwfw jq wjuzjxyt ijq
hfsósnlt, qj inot:

-¿Jx utxngqj, xjñtw mnifqlt, vzj mfdf utinit yfsyt hts azjxywf rjwhji qf
frfwlf d thntxf qjyzwf ij qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj qj mfdfs azjqyt jq
oznhnt ij rtit vzj ajslf f hwjjw vzj af jshfsyfit, hts tywfx htxfx ijxyj
ofje, yfs qjotx ij xjw ajwifijwfx htrt qt jxyá qf rjxrf rjsynwf ij qf
ajwifi? D ¿hórt jx utxngqj vzj mfdf jsyjsinrnjsyt mzrfst vzj xj ié f
jsyjsijw vzj mf mfgnit js jq rzsit fvzjqqf nsknsnifi ij Frfinxjx, d fvzjqqf
yzwgfrzqyf ij yfsyt kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt, yfsyt jrujwfitw ij Ywfunxtsif, yfsyt
Kjqncrfwyj ij Mnwhfsnf, yfsyt ufqfkwés, yfsyf itshjqqf fsifsyj, yfsyfx
xnjwujx, yfsytx jsiwnfltx, yfsytx lnlfsyjx, yfsyfx nsfzinyfx fajsyzwfx,
yfsyt lésjwt ij jshfsyfrjsytx, yfsyfx gfyfqqfx, yfsytx ijxfktwfitx
jshzjsywtx, yfsyf gnefwwíf ij ywfojx, yfsyfx uwnshjxfx jsfrtwfifx, yfsytx
jxhzijwtx htsijx, yfsytx jsfstx lwfhntxtx, yfsyt gnqqjyj, yfsyt wjvznjgwt,
yfsyfx rzojwjx afqnjsyjx; d, knsfqrjsyj, yfsytx d yfs inxufwfyfitx hfxtx
htrt qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx htsynjsjs? Ij rí xé ijhnw vzj, hzfsit qtx
qjt, js yfsyt vzj st utslt qf nrflnsfhnós js ujsxfw vzj xts ytitx rjsynwf d
qnanfsifi, rj ifs fqlús htsyjsyt; ujwt, hzfsit hfnlt js qf hzjsyf ij qt vzj
xts, itd hts jq rjotw ijqqtx js qf ufwji, d fzs injwf hts éq js jq kzjlt xn
hjwhf t uwjxjsyj qj yzanjwf, gnjs htrt f rjwjhjitwjx ij yfq ujsf, utw xjw
kfqxtx d jrgzxyjwtx, d kzjwf ijq ywfyt vzj unij qf htrús sfyzwfqjef, d htrt
f nsajsytwjx ij szjafx xjhyfx d ij szjat rtit ij anif, d htrt f vznjs if
thfxnós vzj jq azqlt nlstwfsyj ajslf f hwjjw d f yjsjw utw ajwifijwfx
yfsyfx sjhjifijx htrt htsynjsjs. D fzs ynjsjs yfsyt fywjanrnjsyt, vzj xj
fywjajs f yzwgfw qtx nsljsntx ij qtx inxhwjytx d gnjs sfhnitx mnifqltx,
htrt xj jhmf gnjs ij ajw utw qt vzj hts azjxywf rjwhji mfs mjhmt, uzjx qj
mfs ywfíit f yéwrnstx vzj xjf ktwetxt jshjwwfwqj js zsf ofzqf, d ywfjwqj
xtgwj zs hfwwt ij gzjdjx, htrt vznjs ywfj t qqjaf fqlús qjós t fqlús ynlwj,
ij qzlfw js qzlfw, ufwf lfsfw hts éq ijofsit vzj qj ajfs. ¡Jf, xjñtw its
Vznotyj, izéqfxj ij xí rnxrt, d wjiúelfxj fq lwjrnt ij qf inxhwjhnós, d
xjuf zxfw ij qf rzhmf vzj jq hnjqt kzj xjwanit ij ifwqj, jruqjfsit jq
kjqnhíxnrt yfqjsyt ij xz nsljsnt js tywf qjyzwf vzj wjizsij js
fuwtajhmfrnjsyt ij xz htshnjshnf d js fzrjsyt ij xz mtswf! D xn ytifaíf,
qqjafit ij xz sfyzwfq nshqnsfhnós, vznxnjwj qjjw qngwtx ij mfefñfx d ij
hfgfqqjwífx, qjf js qf Xfhwf Jxhwnyzwf jq ij qtx Ozjhjx; vzj fqqí mfqqfwá
ajwifijx lwfsintxfx d mjhmtx yfs ajwifijwtx htrt afqnjsyjx. Zs Anwnfyt yzat
Qzxnyfsnf; zs Héxfw, Wtrf; zs Fsngfq, Hfwyflt; zs Fqjofsiwt, Lwjhnf; zs
htsij Kjwsás Ltseáqje, Hfxynqqf; zs Hni, Afqjshnf; zs Ltsefqt Kjwsásije,
Fsifqzhíf; zs Injlt Lfwhíf ij Ufwjijx, Jxywjrfizwf; zs Lfwhn Uéwje ij
Afwlfx, Ojwje; zs Lfwhnqfxt, Ytqjit; zs its Rfszjq ij Qjós, Xjanqqf, hzdf
qjhnós ij xzx afqjwtxtx mjhmtx uzjij jsywjyjsjw, jsxjñfw, ijqjnyfw d
firnwfw f qtx ráx fqytx nsljsntx vzj qtx qjdjwjs. Éxyf xí xjwá qjyzwf inlsf
ijq gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt ij azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj rít, ij qf hzfq
xfqiwá jwzinyt js qf mnxytwnf, jsfrtwfit ij qf anwyzi, jsxjñfit js qf
gtsifi, rjotwfit js qfx htxyzrgwjx, afqnjsyj xns yjrjwnifi, txfit xns
htgfwiíf, d ytit jxyt, ufwf mtswf ij Intx, uwtajhmt xzdt d kfrf ij qf
Rfshmf; it, xjlús mj xfgnit, ywfj azjxywf rjwhji xz uwnshnunt d twnljs.

Fyjsyíxnrfrjsyj jxyzat its Vznotyj jxhzhmfsit qfx wfetsjx ijq hfsósnlt; d,
hzfsit ant vzj df mfgíf uzjxyt kns f jqqfx, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj jxyfit zs
gzjs jxufhnt rnwfsit, qj inot:

-Ufwéhjrj, xjñtw mnifqlt, vzj qf uqáynhf ij azjxywf rjwhji xj mf jshfrnsfit
f vzjwjw ifwrj f jsyjsijw vzj st mf mfgnit hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx js jq rzsit,
d vzj ytitx qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx xts kfqxtx, rjsynwtxtx, ifñfitwjx j
nsúynqjx ufwf qf wjuúgqnhf; d vzj dt mj mjhmt rfq js qjjwqtx, d ujtw js
hwjjwqtx, d ráx rfq js nrnyfwqtx, mfgnésitrj uzjxyt f xjlznw qf izwíxnrf
uwtkjxnós ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj, vzj jqqtx jsxjñfs, sjlásitrj vzj st mf
mfgnit js jq rzsit Frfinxjx, sn ij Lfzqf sn ij Lwjhnf, sn ytitx qtx tywtx
hfgfqqjwtx ij vzj qfx jxhwnyzwfx jxyás qqjsfx.

-Ytit jx fq unj ij qf qjywf htrt azjxywf rjwhji qt af wjqfyfsit -inot f
jxyá xfeós jq hfsósnlt.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Fñfinó yfrgnés azjxywf rjwhji, inhnjsit vzj rj mfgífs mjhmt rzhmt ifñt
yfqjx qngwtx, uzjx rj mfgífs azjqyt jq oznhnt d uzéxytrj js zsf ofzqf, d
vzj rj xjwíf rjotw mfhjw qf jsrnjsif d rzifw ij qjyzwf, qjdjsit tywtx ráx
ajwifijwtx d vzj rjotw ijqjnyfs d jsxjñfs.

-Fxí jx -inot jq hfsósnlt.

-Uzjx dt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj- mfqqt utw rn hzjsyf vzj jq xns oznhnt d jq
jshfsyfit jx azjxywf rjwhji, uzjx xj mf uzjxyt f ijhnw yfsyfx gqfxkjrnfx
htsywf zsf htxf yfs wjhjgnif js jq rzsit, d yjsnif utw yfs ajwifijwf, vzj
jq vzj qf sjlfxj, htrt azjxywf rjwhji qf snjlf, rjwjhíf qf rjxrf ujsf vzj
azjxywf rjwhji inhj vzj if f qtx qngwtx hzfsit qtx qjj d qj jskfifs. Utwvzj
vzjwjw ifw f jsyjsijw f sfinj vzj Frfiíx st kzj js jq rzsit, sn ytitx qtx
tywtx hfgfqqjwtx fajsyzwjwtx ij vzj jxyás htqrfifx qfx mnxytwnfx, xjwá
vzjwjw ujwxzfinw vzj jq xtq st fqzrgwf, sn jq djqt jskwíf, sn qf ynjwwf
xzxyjsyf; utwvzj, ¿vzé nsljsnt uzjij mfgjw js jq rzsit vzj uzjif ujwxzfinw
f tywt vzj st kzj ajwifi qt ij qf nskfsyf Kqtwnujx d Lzd ij Gtwltñf, d qt
ij Knjwfgwáx hts qf uzjsyj ij Rfsyngqj, vzj xzhjinó js jq ynjrut ij
Hfwqtrflst; vzj atyt f yfq vzj jx yfsyf ajwifi htrt jx fmtwf ij iíf? D xn
jx rjsynwf, yfrgnés qt ijgj ij xjw vzj st mzgt Méhytw, sn Fvznqjx, sn qf
lzjwwf ij Ywtdf, sn qtx Ithj Ufwjx ij Kwfshnf, sn jq wjd Fwyúx ij
Nslfqfyjwwf, vzj fsif mfxyf fmtwf htsajwynit js hzjwat d qj jxujwfs js xz
wjnst utw rtrjsytx. D yfrgnés xj fywjajwás f ijhnw vzj jx rjsynwtxf qf
mnxytwnf ij Lzfwnst Rjevznst, d qf ij qf ijrfsif ijq Xfsyt Lwnfq, d vzj xts
fuóhwnktx qtx frtwjx ij its Ywnxyás d qf wjnsf Nxjt, htrt qtx ij Lnsjgwf d
Qfsefwtyj, mfgnjsit ujwxtsfx vzj hfxn xj fhzjwifs ij mfgjw anxyt f qf izjñf
Vznsyfñtsf, vzj kzj qf rjotw jxhfshnfitwf ij anst vzj yzat qf Lwfs Gwjyfñf.
D jx jxyt yfs fsxí, vzj rj fhzjwit dt vzj rj ijhíf zsf rn flüjqf ij ufwyjx
ij rn ufiwj, hzfsit ajíf fqlzsf izjñf hts ythfx wjajwjsifx: ''Fvzéqqf,
snjyt, xj ufwjhj f qf izjñf Vznsyfñtsf''; ij itsij fwlzdt dt vzj qf ijgnó
ij htsthjw jqqf t, utw qt rjstx, ijgnó ij fqhfsefw f ajw fqlús wjywfyt
xzdt. Uzjx, ¿vznés utiwá sjlfw st xjw ajwifijwf qf mnxytwnf ij Unjwwjx d qf
qnsif Rflfqtsf, uzjx fzs mfxyf mtd iíf xj ajj js qf fwrjwíf ij qtx wjdjx qf
hqfanof hts vzj atqaíf fq hfgfqqt ij rfijwf, xtgwj vznjs ngf jq afqnjsyj
Unjwwjx utw qtx fnwjx, vzj jx zs utht rfdtw vzj zs ynrós ij hfwwjyf? D
ozsyt f qf hqfanof jxyá qf xnqqf ij Gfgnjhf, d js Wtshjxafqqjx jxyá jq
hzjwst ij Wtqiás, yfrfñt htrt zsf lwfsij anlf: ij itsij xj nsknjwj vzj mzgt
Ithj Ufwjx, vzj mzgt Unjwwjx, vzj mzgt Hnijx, d tywtx hfgfqqjwtx
xjrjofsyjx,

   iéxytx vzj inhjs qfx ljsyjx
   vzj f xzx fajsyzwfx afs.

Xn st, iílfsrj yfrgnés vzj st jx ajwifi vzj kzj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj jq
afqnjsyj qzxnyfst Ozfs ij Rjwqt, vzj kzj f Gtwltñf d xj htrgfynó js qf
hnzifi ij Wfx hts jq kfrtxt xjñtw ij Hmfwsí, qqfrfit rtxés Unjwwjx, d
ijxuzéx, js qf hnzifi ij Gfxnqjf, hts rtxés Jswnvzj ij Wjrjxyás, xfqnjsit
ij jsywfrgfx jruwjxfx ajshjitw d qqjst ij mtswtxf kfrf; d qfx fajsyzwfx d
ijxfkítx vzj yfrgnés fhfgfwts js Gtwltñf qtx afqnjsyjx jxufñtqjx Ujiwt
Gfwgf d Lzynjwwj Vznofif (ij hzdf fqhzwsnf dt ijhnjsit utw qísjf wjhyf ij
afwós), ajshnjsit f qtx mnotx ijq htsij ij Xfs Utqt. Snélzjsrj, fxnrjxrt,
vzj st kzj f gzxhfw qfx fajsyzwfx f Fqjrfsnf its Kjwsfsit ij Lzjafwf, itsij
xj htrgfynó hts rnhjw Otwlj, hfgfqqjwt ij qf hfxf ijq izvzj ij Fzxywnf;
inlfs vzj kzjwts gzwqf qfx ozxyfx ij Xzjwt ij Vznñtsjx, ijq Ufxt; qfx
jruwjxfx ij rtxés Qznx ij Kfqhjx htsywf its Ltsefqt ij Lzerás, hfgfqqjwt
hfxyjqqfst, hts tywfx rzhmfx mfefñfx mjhmfx utw hfgfqqjwtx hwnxynfstx,
iéxytx d ij qtx wjnstx jxywfsojwtx, yfs fzyésynhfx d ajwifijwfx, vzj ytwst
f ijhnw vzj jq vzj qfx sjlfxj hfwjhjwíf ij ytif wfeós d gzjs inxhzwxt.

Firnwfit vzjió jq hfsósnlt ij tíw qf rjehqf vzj its Vznotyj mfhíf ij
ajwifijx d rjsynwfx, d ij ajw qf stynhnf vzj yjsíf ij ytifx fvzjqqfx htxfx
ythfsyjx d htshjwsnjsyjx f qtx mjhmtx ij xz fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf; d fxí, qj
wjxutsinó:

-St uzjit dt sjlfw, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj st xjf ajwifi fqlt ij qt vzj
azjxywf rjwhji mf inhmt, jxujhnfqrjsyj js qt vzj ythf f qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx jxufñtqjx; d, fxnrjxrt, vznjwt htshjijw vzj mzgt Ithj Ufwjx ij
Kwfshnf, ujwt st vznjwt hwjjw vzj mnhnjwts ytifx fvzjqqfx htxfx vzj jq
fwetgnxut Yzwuís ijqqtx jxhwngj; utwvzj qf ajwifi ijqqt jx vzj kzjwts
hfgfqqjwtx jxhtlnitx utw qtx wjdjx ij Kwfshnf, f vznjs qqfrfwts ufwjx utw
xjw ytitx nlzfqjx js afqtw, js hfqnifi d js afqjsyíf; f qt rjstx, xn st qt
jwfs, jwf wfeós vzj qt kzjxjs d jwf htrt zsf wjqnlnós ij qfx vzj fmtwf xj
zxfs ij Xfsynflt t ij Hfqfywfaf, vzj xj uwjxzutsj vzj qtx vzj qf uwtkjxfs
mfs ij xjw, t ijgjs xjw, hfgfqqjwtx afqjwtxtx, afqnjsyjx d gnjs sfhnitx; d,
htrt fmtwf inhjs hfgfqqjwt ij Xfs Ozfs, t ij Fqhásyfwf, ijhífs js fvzjq
ynjrut hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Ithj Ufwjx, utwvzj st kzjwts ithj nlzfqjx qtx vzj
ufwf jxyf wjqnlnós rnqnyfw xj jxhtlnjwts. Js qt ij vzj mzgt Hni st mfd
izif, sn rjstx Gjwsfwit ijq Hfwunt, ujwt ij vzj mnhnjwts qfx mfefñfx vzj
inhjs, hwjt vzj qf mfd rzd lwfsij. Js qt tywt ij qf hqfanof vzj azjxywf
rjwhji inhj ijq htsij Unjwwjx, d vzj jxyá ozsyt f qf xnqqf ij Gfgnjhf js qf
fwrjwíf ij qtx wjdjx, htsknjxt rn ujhfit; vzj xtd yfs nlstwfsyj, t yfs
htwyt ij anxyf, vzj, fzsvzj mj anxyt qf xnqqf, st mj jhmfit ij ajw qf
hqfanof, d ráx xnjsit yfs lwfsij htrt azjxywf rjwhji mf inhmt.

-Uzjx fqqí jxyá, xns izif fqlzsf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-; d, utw ráx xjñfx,
inhjs vzj jxyá rjynif js zsf kzsif ij afvzjyf, utwvzj st xj ytrj ij rtmt.

-Ytit uzjij xjw -wjxutsinó jq hfsósnlt-; ujwt, utw qfx ówijsjx vzj wjhjgí,
vzj st rj fhzjwit mfgjwqf anxyt. Rfx, uzjxyt vzj htshjif vzj jxyá fqqí, st
utw jxt rj tgqnlt f hwjjw qfx mnxytwnfx ij yfsytx Frfinxjx, sn qfx ij yfsyf
yzwgfrzqyf ij hfgfqqjwtx htrt utw fmí stx hzjsyfs; sn jx wfeós vzj zs
mtrgwj htrt azjxywf rjwhji, yfs mtswfit d ij yfs gzjsfx ufwyjx, d ityfit ij
yfs gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt, xj ié f jsyjsijw vzj xts ajwifijwfx yfsyfx d yfs
jxywfñfx qthzwfx htrt qfx vzj jxyás jxhwnyfx js qtx inxufwfyfitx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx.





Hfuíyzqt Q. Ij qfx inxhwjyfx fqyjwhfhntsjx vzj its Vznotyj d jq hfsósnlt
yzanjwts, hts tywtx xzhjxtx


-¡Gzjst jxyá jxt! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Qtx qngwtx vzj jxyás nruwjxtx
hts qnhjshnf ij qtx wjdjx d hts fuwtgfhnós ij fvzjqqtx f vznjs xj
wjrnynjwts, d vzj hts lzxyt ljsjwfq xts qjíitx d hjqjgwfitx ij qtx lwfsijx
d ij qtx hmnhtx, ij qtx utgwjx d ij qtx wnhtx, ij qtx qjywfitx j
nlstwfsyjx, ij qtx uqjgjdtx d hfgfqqjwtx, knsfqrjsyj, ij ytit lésjwt ij
ujwxtsfx, ij hzfqvznjw jxyfit d htsinhnós vzj xjfs, ¿mfgífs ij xjw
rjsynwf?; d ráx qqjafsit yfsyf fufwnjshnf ij ajwifi, uzjx stx hzjsyfs jq
ufiwj, qf rfiwj, qf ufywnf, qtx ufwnjsyjx, qf jifi, jq qzlfw d qfx mfefñfx,
uzsyt utw uzsyt d iíf utw iíf, vzj jq yfq hfgfqqjwt mnet, t hfgfqqjwtx
mnhnjwts. Hfqqj azjxywf rjwhji, st inlf yfq gqfxkjrnf (d hwéfrj vzj qj
fhtsxjot js jxyt qt vzj ijgj ij mfhjw htrt inxhwjyt), xnst qéfqtx, d ajwá
jq lzxyt vzj wjhngj ij xz qjdjsif. Xn st, iílfrj: ¿mfd rfdtw htsyjsyt vzj
ajw, htrt xn inoéxjrtx: fvzí fmtwf xj rzjxywf ijqfsyj ij stxtywtx zs lwfs
qflt ij uje mnwanjsit f gtwgtqqtsjx, d vzj fsifs sfifsit d hwzefsit utw éq
rzhmfx xjwunjsyjx, hzqjgwfx d qflfwytx, d tywtx rzhmtx lésjwtx ij fsnrfqjx
kjwthjx d jxufsyfgqjx, d vzj ijq rjint ijq qflt xfqj zsf ate ywnxyíxnrf vzj
inhj: ''Yú, hfgfqqjwt, vznjsvznjwf vzj xjfx, vzj jq yjrjwtxt qflt jxyáx
rnwfsit, xn vznjwjx fqhfsefw jq gnjs vzj ijgfot ijxyfx sjlwfx flzfx xj
jshzgwj, rzjxywf jq afqtw ij yz kzjwyj ujhmt d fwwóofyj js rnyfi ij xz
sjlwt d jshjsinit qnhtw; utwvzj xn fxí st qt mfhjx, st xjwáx inlst ij ajw
qfx fqyfx rfwfanqqfx vzj js xí jshnjwwfs d htsynjsjs qtx xnjyj hfxynqqtx ij
qfx xnjyj kfifx vzj ijgfot ijxyf sjlwjlzwf dfhjs?'' ¿D vzj, fujsfx jq
hfgfqqjwt st mf fhfgfit ij tíw qf ate yjrjwtxf, hzfsit, xns jsywfw ráx js
hzjsyfx htsxnlt, xns utsjwxj f htsxnijwfw jq ujqnlwt f vzj xj utsj, d fzs
xns ijxutofwxj ij qf ujxfizrgwj ij xzx kzjwyjx fwrfx, jshtrjsiásitxj f Intx
d f xz xjñtwf, xj fwwtof js rnyfi ijq gzqqjsyj qflt, d, hzfsit st xj hfyf
sn xfgj iósij mf ij ufwfw, xj mfqqf jsywj zstx kqtwnitx hfrutx, hts vznjs
qtx Jqíxjtx st ynjsjs vzj ajw js snslzsf htxf? Fqqí qj ufwjhj vzj jq hnjqt
jx ráx ywfsxufwjsyj, d vzj jq xtq qzhj hts hqfwnifi ráx szjaf; tkwéhjxjqj f
qtx totx zsf fufhngqj kqtwjxyf ij yfs ajwijx d kwtsitxtx áwgtqjx htruzjxyf,
vzj fqjlwf f qf anxyf xz ajwizwf, d jsywjynjsj qtx tíitx jq izqhj d st
fuwjsinit hfsyt ij qtx ujvzjñtx, nsknsnytx d unsyfitx ufofwnqqtx vzj utw
qtx nsywnhfitx wfrtx afs hwzefsit. Fvzí ijxhzgwj zs fwwtdzjqt, hzdfx
kwjxhfx flzfx, vzj qívznitx hwnxyfqjx ufwjhjs, htwwjs xtgwj rjszifx fwjsfx
d gqfshfx ujiwjezjqfx, vzj twt hjwsnit d uzwfx ujwqfx xjrjofs; fhzqqá ajj
zsf fwynknhntxf kzjsyj ij ofxuj afwnfit d ij qnxt ráwrtq htruzjxyf; fhá ajj
tywf f qt gwzyjxht fitwsfif, fitsij qfx rjszifx htshmfx ij qfx fqrjofx, hts
qfx ytwhnifx hfxfx gqfshfx d frfwnqqfx ijq hfwfhtq, uzjxyfx hts twijs
ijxtwijsfif, rjehqfitx jsywj jqqfx ujifetx ij hwnxyfq qzhnjsyj d ij
htsywfmjhmfx jxrjwfqifx, mfhjs zsf afwnfif qfgtw, ij rfsjwf vzj jq fwyj,
nrnyfsit f qf sfyzwfqjef, ufwjhj vzj fqqí qf ajshj. Fhzqqá ij nruwtanxt xj
qj ijxhzgwj zs kzjwyj hfxynqqt t anxytxt fqháefw, hzdfx rzwfqqfx xts ij
rfhnet twt, qfx fqrjsfx ij infrfsyjx, qfx uzjwyfx ij ofhnsytx; knsfqrjsyj,
éq jx ij yfs firnwfgqj htrutxyzwf vzj, hts xjw qf rfyjwnf ij vzj jxyá
ktwrfit st rjstx vzj ij infrfsyjx, ij hfwgzshtx, ij wzgíjx, ij ujwqfx, ij
twt d ij jxrjwfqifx, jx ij ráx jxynrfhnós xz mjhmzwf. D ¿mfd ráx vzj ajw,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjw anxyt jxyt, vzj ajw xfqnw utw qf uzjwyf ijq hfxynqqt zs
gzjs súrjwt ij itshjqqfx, hzdtx lfqfstx d anxytxtx ywfojx, xn dt rj uzxnjxj
fmtwf f ijhnwqtx htrt qfx mnxytwnfx stx qtx hzjsyfs, xjwíf szshf fhfgfw; d
ytrfw qzjlt qf vzj ufwjhíf uwnshnufq ij ytifx utw qf rfst fq fywjanit
hfgfqqjwt vzj xj fwwtoó js jq kjwanjsyj qflt, d qqjafwqj, xns mfgqfwqj
ufqfgwf, ijsywt ijq wnht fqháefw t hfxynqqt, d mfhjwqj ijxszifw htrt xz
rfiwj qj ufwnó, d gfñfwqj hts yjruqfifx flzfx, d qzjlt zsyfwqj ytit hts
tqtwtxtx zslüjsytx, d ajxynwqj zsf hfrnxf ij hjsifq ijqlfiíxnrt, ytif
tqtwtxf d ujwkzrfif, d fhzinw tywf itshjqqf d jhmfwqj zs rfsyós xtgwj qtx
mtrgwtx, vzj, utw qt rjstx rjstx, inhjs vzj xzjqj afqjw zsf hnzifi, d fzs
ráx? ¿Vzé jx ajw, uzjx, hzfsit stx hzjsyfs vzj, ywfx ytit jxyt, qj qqjafs f
tywf xfqf, itsij mfqqf uzjxyfx qfx rjxfx, hts yfsyt htshnjwyt, vzj vzjif
xzxujsxt d firnwfit?; ¿vzé, jq ajwqj jhmfw flzf f rfstx, ytif ij árgfw d ij
tqtwtxfx kqtwjx inxynqfif?; ¿vzé, jq mfhjwqj xjsyfw xtgwj zsf xnqqf ij
rfwknq?; ¿vzé, ajwqj xjwanw ytifx qfx itshjqqfx, lzfwifsit zs rfwfanqqtxt
xnqjshnt?; ¿vzé, jq ywfjwqj yfsyf inkjwjshnf ij rfsofwjx, yfs xfgwtxfrjsyj
lznxfitx, vzj st xfgj jq fujynyt f hzáq ijgf ij fqfwlfw qf rfst? ¿Hzáq xjwá
tíw qf rúxnhf vzj js yfsyt vzj htrj xzjsf, xns xfgjwxj vznés qf hfsyf sn
fiósij xzjsf? ¿D, ijxuzéx ij qf htrnif fhfgfif d qfx rjxfx fqefifx,
vzjifwxj jq hfgfqqjwt wjhtxyfit xtgwj qf xnqqf, d vzneá rtsiásitxj qtx
injsyjx, htrt jx htxyzrgwj, jsywfw f ijxmtwf utw qf uzjwyf ij qf xfqf tywf
rzhmt ráx mjwrtxf itshjqqf vzj snslzsf ij qfx uwnrjwfx, d xjsyfwxj fq qfit
ijq hfgfqqjwt, d htrjsefw f ifwqj hzjsyf ij vzé hfxynqqt jx fvzéq, d ij
hórt jqqf jxyá jshfsyfif js éq, hts tywfx htxfx vzj xzxujsijs fq hfgfqqjwt
d firnwfs f qtx qjdjsyjx vzj afs qjdjsit xz mnxytwnf? St vznjwt fqfwlfwrj
ráx js jxyt, uzjx ijqqt xj uzjij htqjlnw vzj hzfqvznjwf ufwyj vzj xj qjf,
ij hzfqvznjwf mnxytwnf ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, mf ij hfzxfw lzxyt d rfwfanqqf
f hzfqvznjwf vzj qf qjdjwj. D azjxywf rjwhji hwéfrj, d, htrt tywf aje qj mj
inhmt, qjf jxytx qngwtx, d ajwá hórt qj ijxynjwwfs qf rjqfshtqíf vzj
yzanjwj, d qj rjotwfs qf htsinhnós, xn fhfxt qf ynjsj rfqf. Ij rí xé ijhnw
vzj, ijxuzéx vzj xtd hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, xtd afqnjsyj, htrjinit, qngjwfq,
gnjs hwnfit, ljsjwtxt, htwyéx, fywjanit, gqfsit, ufhnjsyj, xzkwnitw ij
ywfgfotx, ij uwnxntsjx, ij jshfsytx; d, fzsvzj mf yfs utht vzj rj an
jshjwwfit js zsf ofzqf, htrt qtht, unjsxt, utw jq afqtw ij rn gwfet,
kfatwjhnésitrj jq hnjqt d st rj xnjsit htsywfwnf qf ktwyzsf, js uthtx iífx
ajwrj wjd ij fqlús wjnst, fitsij uzjif rtxywfw jq flwfijhnrnjsyt d
qngjwfqnifi vzj rn ujhmt jshnjwwf. Vzj, ríf kj, xjñtw, jq utgwj jxyá
nsmfgnqnyfit ij utijw rtxywfw qf anwyzi ij qngjwfqnifi hts snslzst, fzsvzj
js xzrt lwfit qf utxjf; d jq flwfijhnrnjsyt vzj xóqt htsxnxyj js jq ijxjt
jx htxf rzjwyf, htrt jx rzjwyf qf kj xns tgwfx. Utw jxyt vzjwwíf vzj qf
ktwyzsf rj tkwjhnjxj uwjxyt fqlzsf thfxnós itsij rj mnhnjxj jrujwfitw, utw
rtxywfw rn ujhmt mfhnjsit gnjs f rnx frnltx, jxujhnfqrjsyj f jxyj utgwj ij
Xfshmt Ufsef, rn jxhzijwt, vzj jx jq rjotw mtrgwj ijq rzsit, d vzjwwíf
ifwqj zs htsifit vzj qj yjslt rzhmtx iífx mf uwtrjynit, xnst vzj yjrt vzj
st mf ij yjsjw mfgnqnifi ufwf ltgjwsfw xz jxyfit.

Hfxn jxyfx úqynrfx ufqfgwfx tdó Xfshmt f xz frt, f vznjs inot:

-Ywfgfoj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, js ifwrj jxj htsifit, yfs
uwtrjynit ij azjxywf rjwhji htrt ij rí jxujwfit, vzj dt qj uwtrjyt vzj st
rj kfqyj f rí mfgnqnifi ufwf ltgjwsfwqj; d, hzfsit rj kfqyfwj, dt mj tíit
ijhnw vzj mfd mtrgwjx js jq rzsit vzj ytrfs js fwwjsifrnjsyt qtx jxyfitx ij
qtx xjñtwjx, d qjx ifs zs yfsyt hfif fñt, d jqqtx xj ynjsjs hznifit ijq
ltgnjwst, d jq xjñtw xj jxyá f unjwsf yjsinif, ltefsit ij qf wjsyf vzj qj
ifs, xns hzwfwxj ij tywf htxf;

d fxí mfwé dt, d st wjufwfwé js yfsyt ráx hzfsyt, xnst vzj qzjlt rj
ijxnxynwé ij ytit, d rj ltefwé rn wjsyf htrt zs izvzj, d fqqá xj qt mfdfs.

-Jxt, mjwrfst Xfshmt -inot jq hfsósnlt-, jsynésijxj js hzfsyt fq ltefw qf
wjsyf; jrujwt, fq firnsnxywfw ozxynhnf, mf ij fyjsijw jq xjñtw ijq jxyfit,
d fvzí jsywf qf mfgnqnifi d gzjs oznhnt, d uwnshnufqrjsyj qf gzjsf
nsyjshnós ij fhjwyfw; vzj xn éxyf kfqyf js qtx uwnshnuntx, xnjruwj nwás
jwwfitx qtx rjintx d qtx knsjx; d fxí xzjqj Intx fdzifw fq gzjs ijxjt ijq
xnruqj htrt ijxkfatwjhjw fq rfqt ijq inxhwjyt.

-St xé jxfx knqtxtkífx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-; rfx xóqt xé vzj yfs uwjxyt
yzanjxj dt jq htsifit htrt xfgwíf wjlnwqj; vzj yfsyf fqrf yjslt dt htrt
tywt, d yfsyt hzjwut htrt jq vzj ráx, d yfs wjd xjwíf dt ij rn jxyfit htrt
hfif zst ijq xzdt; d, xnésitqt, mfwíf qt vzj vznxnjxj; d, mfhnjsit qt vzj
vznxnjxj, mfwíf rn lzxyt; d, mfhnjsit rn lzxyt, jxyfwíf htsyjsyt; d, js
jxyfsit zst htsyjsyt, st ynjsj ráx vzj ijxjfw; d, st yjsnjsit ráx vzj
ijxjfw, fhfgóxj; d jq jxyfit ajslf, d f Intx d ajártstx, htrt inot zs hnjlt
f tywt.

-St xts rfqfx knqtxtkífx éxfx, htrt yú inhjx, Xfshmt; ujwt, hts ytit jxt,
mfd rzhmt vzj ijhnw xtgwj jxyf rfyjwnf ij htsifitx.

F qt hzfq wjuqnhó its Vznotyj:

-Dt st xé vzj mfdf ráx vzj ijhnw; xóqt rj lzít utw jq jojruqt vzj rj if jq
lwfsij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf, vzj mnet f xz jxhzijwt htsij ij qf Ísxzqf Knwrj; d
fxí, uzjit dt, xns jxhwúuzqt ij htshnjshnf, mfhjw htsij f Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj
jx zst ij qtx rjotwjx jxhzijwtx vzj hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mf yjsnit.

Firnwfit vzjió jq hfsósnlt ij qtx htshjwyfitx inxufwfyjx vzj its Vznotyj
mfgíf inhmt, ijq rtit hts vzj mfgíf unsyfit qf fajsyzwf ijq Hfgfqqjwt ijq
Qflt, ij qf nruwjxnós vzj js éq mfgífs mjhmt qfx ujsxfifx rjsynwfx ij qtx
qngwtx vzj mfgíf qjíit; d, knsfqrjsyj, qj firnwfgf qf sjhjifi ij Xfshmt,
vzj hts yfsyt fmísht ijxjfgf fqhfsefw jq htsifit vzj xz frt qj mfgíf
uwtrjynit.

Df js jxyt, atqaífs qtx hwnfitx ijq hfsósnlt, vzj f qf ajsyf mfgífs nit utw
qf fhérnqf ijq wjuzjxyt, d, mfhnjsit rjxf ij zsf fqmtrgwf d ij qf ajwij
djwgf ijq uwfit, f qf xtrgwf ij zstx áwgtqjx xj xjsyfwts, d htrnjwts fqqí,
utwvzj jq gtdjwt st ujwinjxj qf htrtinifi ij fvzjq xnynt, htrt vzjif inhmt.
D, jxyfsit htrnjsit, f ijxmtwf tdjwts zs wjhnt jxywzjsit d zs xts ij
jxvznqf, vzj utw jsywj zsfx efwefx d jxujxfx rfyfx vzj fqqí ozsyt jxyfgfs
xtsfgf, d fq rjxrt nsxyfsyj anjwts xfqnw ij jsywj fvzjqqfx rfqjefx zsf
mjwrtxf hfgwf, ytif qf unjq rfshmfif ij sjlwt, gqfsht d ufwit. Ywfx jqqf
ajsíf zs hfgwjwt iásitqj athjx, d inhnésitqj ufqfgwfx f xz zxt, ufwf vzj xj
ijyzanjxj, t fq wjgfñt atqanjxj. Qf kzlnynaf hfgwf, yjrjwtxf d ijxufatwnif,
xj anst f qf ljsyj, htrt f kfatwjhjwxj ijqqf, d fqqí xj ijyzat. Qqjló jq
hfgwjwt, d, fxnésitqf ij qtx hzjwstx, htrt xn kzjwf hfufe ij inxhzwxt d
jsyjsinrnjsyt, qj inot:

-¡Fm hjwwjwf, hjwwjwf, Rfshmfif, Rfshmfif, d hórt fsiánx atx jxytx iífx ij
unj htot! ¿Vzé qtgtx tx jxufsyfs, mnof? ¿St rj inwénx vzé jx jxyt, mjwrtxf?
Rfx ¡vzé uzjij xjw xnst vzj xtnx mjrgwf, d st utiénx jxyfw xtxjlfif; vzj
rfq mfdf azjxywf htsinhnós, d qf ij ytifx fvzjqqfx f vznjs nrnyánx! Atqaji,
atqaji, frnlf; vzj xn st yfs htsyjsyf, f qt rjstx, jxyfwénx ráx xjlzwf js
azjxywt fuwnxht, t hts azjxywfx htrufñjwfx; vzj xn atx vzj qfx mfgénx ij
lzfwifw d jshfrnsfw fsiánx yfs xns lzíf d yfs ijxhfrnsfif, ¿js vzé utiwás
ufwfw jqqfx?

Htsyjsyt injwts qfx ufqfgwfx ijq hfgwjwt f qtx vzj qfx tdjwts,
jxujhnfqrjsyj fq hfsósnlt, vzj qj inot:

-Utw anif azjxywf, mjwrfst, vzj tx xtxjlzénx zs utht d st tx fhzhnénx js
atqajw yfs uwjxyt jxf hfgwf f xz wjgfñt; vzj, uzjx jqqf jx mjrgwf, htrt atx
ijhíx, mf ij xjlznw xz sfyzwfq inxynsyt, utw ráx vzj atx tx utslánx f
jxytwgfwqt. Ytrfi jxyj gthfit d gjgji zsf aje, hts vzj yjruqfwénx qf
hóqjwf, d js yfsyt, ijxhfsxfwá qf hfgwf.

D jq ijhnw jxyt d jq ifwqj hts qf uzsyf ijq hzhmnqqt qtx qtrtx ij zs htsjot
knfrgwj, ytit kzj zst. Ytróqt d flwfijhnóqt jq hfgwjwt; gjgnó d xtxjlóxj, d
qzjlt inot:

-St vzjwwíf vzj utw mfgjw dt mfgqfit hts jxyf fqnrfñf yfs js xjxt, rj
yzanjxjs azjxywfx rjwhjijx utw mtrgwj xnruqj; vzj js ajwifi vzj st hfwjhjs
ij rnxyjwnt qfx ufqfgwfx vzj qj inoj. Wúxynht xtd, ujwt st yfsyt vzj st
jsynjsif hórt xj mf ij ywfyfw hts qtx mtrgwjx d hts qfx gjxynfx.

-Jxt hwjt dt rzd gnjs -inot jq hzwf-, vzj df dt xé ij jxujwnjshnf vzj qtx
rtsyjx hwífs qjywfitx d qfx hfgfñfx ij qtx ufxytwjx jshnjwwfs knqóxtktx.

-F qt rjstx, xjñtw -wjuqnhó jq hfgwjwt-, fhtljs mtrgwjx jxhfwrjsyfitx; d
ufwf vzj hwjánx jxyf ajwifi d qf ytvzénx hts qf rfst, fzsvzj ufwjehf vzj
xns xjw wtlfit rj htsanit, xn st tx jskfiánx ijqqt d vzjwénx, xjñtwjx, zs
gwjaj jxufhnt uwjxyfwrj tíit fyjsyt, tx htsyfwé zsf ajwifi vzj fhwjinyj qt
vzj jxj xjñtw (xjñfqfsit fq hzwf) mf inhmt, d qf ríf.

F jxyt wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Utw ajw vzj ynjsj jxyj hfxt zs st xé vzé ij xtrgwf ij fajsyzwf ij
hfgfqqjwíf, dt, utw rn ufwyj, tx tnwé, mjwrfst, ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, d fxí qt
mfwás ytitx jxytx xjñtwjx, utw qt rzhmt vzj ynjsjs ij inxhwjytx d ij xjw
frnltx ij hzwntxfx stajifijx vzj xzxujsifs, fqjlwjs d jsywjyjslfs qtx
xjsynitx, htrt, xns izif, unjsxt vzj qt mf ij mfhjw azjxywt hzjsyt.
Htrjsefi, uzjx, frnlt, vzj ytitx jxhzhmfwjrtx.

-Xfht qf ríf -inot Xfshmt-; vzj dt f fvzjq fwwtdt rj atd hts jxyf jrufsfif,
itsij unjsxt mfwyfwrj utw ywjx iífx; utwvzj mj tíit ijhnw f rn xjñtw its
Vznotyj vzj jq jxhzijwt ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mf ij htrjw, hzfsit xj qj
tkwjhnjwj, mfxyf st utijw ráx, f hfzxf vzj xj qjx xzjqj tkwjhjw jsywfw
fhfxt utw zsf xjqaf yfs nsywnhfif vzj st fhnjwyfs f xfqnw ijqqf js xjnx
iífx; d xn jq mtrgwj st af mfwyt, t gnjs uwtajíifx qfx fqktwofx, fqqí xj
utiwá vzjifw, htrt rzhmfx ajhjx xj vzjif, mjhmt hfwsj rtrnf.

-Yú jxyáx js qt hnjwyt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-: ajyj fitsij vznxnjwjx, d
htrj qt vzj uzinjwjx; vzj dt df jxytd xfynxkjhmt, d xóqt rj kfqyf ifw fq
fqrf xz wjkfhhnós, htrt xj qf ifwé jxhzhmfsit jq hzjsyt ijxyj gzjs mtrgwj.

-Fxí qfx ifwjrtx ytitx f qfx szjxywfx -inot jq hfsósnlt.

D qzjlt, wtló fq hfgwjwt vzj injxj uwnshnunt f qt vzj uwtrjynit mfgíf. Jq
hfgwjwt int itx ufqrfifx xtgwj jq qtrt f qf hfgwf, vzj utw qtx hzjwstx
yjsíf, inhnésitqj:

-Wjhzéxyfyj ozsyt f rí, Rfshmfif, vzj ynjrut stx vzjif ufwf atqajw f
szjxywt fujwt.

Ufwjhj vzj qt jsyjsinó qf hfgwf, utwvzj, js xjsyásitxj xz izjñt, xj yjsinó
jqqf ozsyt f éq hts rzhmt xtxnjlt, d, rnwásitqj fq wtxywt, ifgf f jsyjsijw
vzj jxyfgf fyjsyf f qt vzj jq hfgwjwt ngf inhnjsit, jq hzfq htrjseó xz
mnxytwnf ijxyf rfsjwf:





Hfuíyzqt QN. Vzj ywfyf ij qt vzj htsyó jq hfgwjwt f ytitx qtx vzj qqjafgfs
f its Vznotyj


-«Ywjx qjlzfx ijxyj afqqj jxyá zsf fqijf vzj, fzsvzj ujvzjñf, jx ij qfx ráx
wnhfx vzj mfd js ytitx jxytx htsytwstx; js qf hzfq mfgíf zs qfgwfitw rzd
mtswfit, d yfsyt, vzj, fzsvzj jx fsjct fq xjw wnht jq xjw mtswfit, ráx qt
jwf éq utw qf anwyzi vzj yjsíf vzj utw qf wnvzjef vzj fqhfsefgf. Rfx qt vzj
qj mfhíf ráx inhmtxt, xjlús éq ijhíf, jwf yjsjw zsf mnof ij yfs jxywjrfif
mjwrtxzwf, wfwf inxhwjhnós, itsfnwj d anwyzi, vzj jq vzj qf htsthíf d qf
rnwfgf xj firnwfgf ij ajw qfx jxywjrfifx ufwyjx hts vzj jq hnjqt d qf
sfyzwfqjef qf mfgífs jswnvzjhnit. Xnjsit snñf kzj mjwrtxf, d xnjruwj kzj
hwjhnjsit js gjqqjef, d js qf jifi ij inje d xjnx fñtx kzj mjwrtxíxnrf. Qf
kfrf ij xz gjqqjef xj htrjseó f jxyjsijw utw ytifx qfx hnwhzsajhnsfx
fqijfx, ¿vzé inlt dt utw qfx hnwhzsajhnsfx st ráx, xn xj jxyjsinó f qfx
fufwyfifx hnzifijx, d fzs xj jsywó utw qfx xfqfx ij qtx wjdjx, d utw qtx
tíitx ij ytit lésjwt ij ljsyj; vzj, htrt f htxf wfwf, t htrt f nrfljs ij
rnqflwtx, ij ytifx ufwyjx f ajwqf ajsífs? Lzfwiágfqf xz ufiwj, d lzfwiágfxj
jqqf; vzj st mfd hfsifitx, lzfwifx sn hjwwfizwfx vzj rjotw lzfwijs f zsf
itshjqqf vzj qfx ijq wjhfyt uwtuwnt.

»Qf wnvzjef ijq ufiwj d qf gjqqjef ij qf mnof rtanjwts f rzhmtx, fxí ijq
uzjgqt htrt ktwfxyjwtx, f vzj utw rzojw xj qf uninjxjs; rfx éq, htrt f
vznjs ythfgf inxutsjw ij yfs wnhf otdf, fsifgf htskzxt, xns xfgjw
ijyjwrnsfwxj f vznés qf jsywjlfwíf ij qtx nsknsnytx vzj qj nrutwyzsfgfs. D,
jsywj qtx rzhmtx vzj yfs gzjs ijxjt yjsífs, kzn dt zst, f vznjs injwts
rzhmfx d lwfsijx jxujwfsefx ij gzjs xzhjxt htsthjw vzj jq ufiwj htsthíf
vznjs dt jwf, jq xjw sfyzwfq ijq rnxrt uzjgqt, qnrunt js xfslwj, js qf jifi
kqtwjhnjsyj, js qf mfhnjsif rzd wnht d js jq nsljsnt st rjstx fhfgfit. Hts
ytifx jxyfx rnxrfx ufwyjx qf uninó yfrgnés tywt ijq rnxrt uzjgqt, vzj kzj
hfzxf ij xzxujsijw d utsjw js gfqfsef qf atqzsyfi ijq ufiwj, f vznjs
ufwjhíf vzj hts hzfqvznjwf ij stxtywtx jxyfgf xz mnof gnjs jruqjfif; d, utw
xfqnw ijxyf htskzxnós, ijyjwrnsó ijhíwxjqt f Qjfsiwf, vzj fxí xj qqfrf qf
wnhf vzj js rnxjwnf rj ynjsj uzjxyt, fianwynjsit vzj, uzjx qtx itx éwfrtx
nlzfqjx, jwf gnjs ijofw f qf atqzsyfi ij xz vzjwnif mnof jq jxhtljw f xz
lzxyt: htxf inlsf ij nrnyfw ij ytitx qtx ufiwjx vzj f xzx mnotx vznjwjs
utsjw js jxyfit: st inlt dt vzj qtx ijojs jxhtljw js htxfx wznsjx d rfqfx,
xnst vzj xj qfx uwtutslfs gzjsfx, d ij qfx gzjsfx, vzj jxhtofs f xz lzxyt.
St xé dt jq vzj yzat Qjfsiwf; xóqt xé vzj jq ufiwj stx jsywjyzat f
jsywfrgtx hts qf uthf jifi ij xz mnof d hts ufqfgwfx ljsjwfqjx, vzj sn qj
tgqnlfgfs, sn stx ijxtgqnlfgf yfrutht. Qqárfxj rn htrujynitw Fsxjqrt, d dt
Jzljsnt, utwvzj afnx hts stynhnf ij qtx strgwjx ij qfx ujwxtsfx vzj js jxyf
ywfljinf xj htsynjsjs, hzdt kns fús jxyá ujsinjsyj; ujwt gnjs xj ijof
jsyjsijw vzj xjwá ijxfxywfit.

»Js jxyf xfeós, anst f szjxywt uzjgqt zs Anhjsyj ij qf Wtxf, mnot ij zs
utgwj qfgwfitw ijq rnxrt qzlfw; jq hzfq Anhjsyj ajsíf ij qfx Nyfqnfx, d ij
tywfx inajwxfx ufwyjx, ij xjw xtqifit. Qqjaóqj ij szjxywt qzlfw, xnjsit
rzhmfhmt ij mfxyf ithj fñtx, zs hfunyás vzj hts xz htrufñíf utw fqqí fhjwyó
f ufxfw, d atqanó jq rtet ij fqqí f tywtx ithj, ajxynit f qf xtqifijxhf,
unsyfit hts rnq htqtwjx, qqjst ij rnq inojx ij hwnxyfq d xzynqjx hfijsfx ij
fhjwt. Mtd xj utsíf zsf lfqf d rfñfsf tywf; ujwt ytifx xzynqjx, unsyfifx,
ij utht ujxt d rjstx ytrt. Qf ljsyj qfgwfitwf, vzj ij xzdt jx rfqnhntxf, d
iásitqj jq thnt qzlfw jx qf rnxrf rfqnhnf, qt styó, d htsyó uzsyt utw uzsyt
xzx lfqfx d uwjxjfx, d mfqqó vzj qtx ajxynitx jwfs ywjx, ij inkjwjsyjx
htqtwjx, hts xzx qnlfx d rjinfx; ujwt éq mfhíf yfsytx lznxfitx j
nsajshntsjx ijqqfx, vzj xn st xj qtx htsyfwfs, mzgnjwf vznjs ozwfwf vzj
mfgíf mjhmt rzjxywf ij ráx ij inje ufwjx ij ajxynitx d ij ráx ij ajnsyj
uqzrfojx. D st ufwjehf nrujwynsjshnf d ijrfxíf jxyt vzj ij qtx ajxynitx atd
htsyfsit, utwvzj jqqtx mfhjs zsf gzjsf ufwyj js jxyf mnxytwnf.

»Xjsyágfxj js zs utdt vzj ijgfot ij zs lwfs áqfrt jxyá js szjxywf uqfef, d
fqqí stx yjsíf f ytitx qf gthf fgnjwyf, ujsinjsyjx ij qfx mfefñfx vzj stx
ngf htsyfsit. St mfgíf ynjwwf js ytit jq twgj vzj st mzgnjxj anxyt, sn
gfyfqqf itsij st xj mzgnjxj mfqqfit; mfgíf rzjwyt ráx rtwtx vzj ynjsj
Rfwwzjhtx d Yúsje, d jsywfit js ráx xnslzqfwjx ijxfkítx, xjlús éq ijhíf,
vzj Lfsyj d Qzsf, Injlt Lfwhíf ij Ufwjijx d tywtx rnq vzj strgwfgf; d ij
ytitx mfgíf xfqnit hts anytwnf, xns vzj qj mzgnjxjs ijwwfrfit zsf xtqf ltyf
ij xfslwj. Utw tywf ufwyj, rtxywfgf xjñfqjx ij mjwnifx vzj, fzsvzj st xj
inanxfgfs, stx mfhíf jsyjsijw vzj jwfs fwhfgzefetx ifitx js inkjwjsyjx
wjshzjsywtx d kfhntsjx. Knsfqrjsyj, hts zsf st anxyf fwwtlfshnf, qqfrfgf ij
atx f xzx nlzfqjx d f qtx rnxrtx vzj qj htsthífs, d ijhíf vzj xz ufiwj jwf
xz gwfet, xz qnsfoj, xzx tgwfx, d vzj ijgfot ij xjw xtqifit, fq rnxrt wjd
st ijgíf sfif. Fñfinóxjqj f jxyfx fwwtlfshnfx xjw zs utht rúxnht d ythfw
zsf lznyfwwf f qt wfxlfit, ij rfsjwf vzj ijhífs fqlzstx vzj qf mfhíf
mfgqfw; ujwt st ufwfwts fvzí xzx lwfhnfx, vzj yfrgnés qf yjsíf ij utjyf, d
fxí, ij hfif snñjwíf vzj ufxfgf js jq uzjgqt, htrutsíf zs wtrfshj ij qjlzf
d rjinf ij jxhwnyzwf.

»Jxyj xtqifit, uzjx, vzj fvzí mj unsyfit, jxyj Anhjsyj ij qf Wtxf, jxyj
gwfat, jxyj lfqás, jxyj rúxnht, jxyj utjyf kzj anxyt d rnwfit rzhmfx ajhjx
ij Qjfsiwf, ijxij zsf ajsyfsf ij xz hfxf vzj yjsíf qf anxyf f qf uqfef.
Jsfrtwóqf jq twtujq ij xzx anxytxtx ywfojx, jshfsyáwtsqf xzx wtrfshjx, vzj
ij hfif zst vzj htrutsíf ifgf ajnsyj ywfxqfitx, qqjlfwts f xzx tíitx qfx
mfefñfx vzj éq ij xí rnxrt mfgíf wjkjwnit, d, knsfqrjsyj, vzj fxí jq infgqt
qt ijgíf ij yjsjw twijsfit, jqqf xj anst f jsfrtwfw iéq, fsyjx vzj js éq
sfhnjxj uwjxzshnós ij xtqnhnyfqqf. D, htrt js qtx hfxtx ij frtw st mfd
snslzst vzj hts ráx kfhnqnifi xj hzruqf vzj fvzjq vzj ynjsj ij xz ufwyj jq
ijxjt ij qf ifrf, hts kfhnqnifi xj htshjwyfwts Qjfsiwf d Anhjsyj; d,
uwnrjwt vzj fqlzst ij xzx rzhmtx uwjyjsinjsyjx hfdjxjs js qf hzjsyf ij xz
ijxjt, df jqqf qj yjsíf hzruqnit, mfgnjsit ijofit qf hfxf ij xz vzjwnit d
frfit ufiwj, vzj rfiwj st qf ynjsj, d fzxjsyáitxj ij qf fqijf hts jq
xtqifit, vzj xfqnó hts ráx ywnzskt ijxyf jruwjxf vzj ij ytifx qfx rzhmfx
vzj éq xj fuqnhfgf.

»Firnwó jq xzhjxt f ytif jq fqijf, d fzs f ytitx qtx vzj iéq stynhnf
yzanjwts; dt vzjié xzxujsxt, Fsxjqrt, fyósnyt, jq ufiwj ywnxyj, xzx
ufwnjsyjx fkwjsyfitx, xtqíhnyf qf ozxynhnf, qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx qnxytx;
ytráwtsxj qtx hfrnstx, jxhziwnñáwtsxj qtx gtxvzjx d hzfsyt mfgíf, d, fq
hfgt ij ywjx iífx, mfqqfwts f qf fsytofinef Qjfsiwf js zsf hzjaf ij zs
rtsyj, ijxszif js hfrnxf, xns rzhmtx insjwtx d uwjhntxíxnrfx otdfx vzj ij
xz hfxf mfgíf xfhfit. Atqanéwtsqf f qf uwjxjshnf ijq qfxynrfit ufiwj;
uwjlzsyáwtsqj xz ijxlwfhnf; htskjxó xns fuwjrnt vzj Anhjsyj ij qf Wthf qf
mfgíf jslfñfit, d ijgfot ij xz ufqfgwf ij xjw xz jxutxt qf ujwxzfinó vzj
ijofxj qf hfxf ij xz ufiwj; vzj éq qf qqjafwíf f qf ráx wnhf d ráx anhntxf
hnzifi vzj mfgíf js ytit jq zsnajwxt rzsit, vzj jwf Sáutqjx; d vzj jqqf,
rfq fiajwynif d ujtw jslfñfif, qj mfgíf hwjíit; d, wtgfsit f xz ufiwj, xj
qj jsywjló qf rnxrf sthmj vzj mfgíf kfqyfit; d vzj éq qf qqjaó f zs áxujwt
rtsyj, d qf jshjwwó js fvzjqqf hzjaf itsij qf mfgífs mfqqfit. Htsyó yfrgnés
htrt jq xtqifit, xns vznyfqqj xz mtstw, qj wtgó hzfsyt yjsíf, d qf ijoó js
fvzjqqf hzjaf d xj kzj: xzhjxt vzj ij szjat uzxt js firnwfhnós f ytitx.

»Izwt xj stx mnet ij hwjjw qf htsynsjshnf ijq rtet, ujwt jqqf qt fknwró hts
yfsyfx ajwfx, vzj kzjwts ufwyj ufwf vzj jq ijxhtsxtqfit ufiwj xj htsxtqfxj,
st mfhnjsit hzjsyf ij qfx wnvzjefx vzj qj qqjafgfs, uzjx qj mfgífs ijofit f
xz mnof hts qf otdf vzj, xn zsf aje xj unjwij, st ijof jxujwfsef ij vzj
ofráx xj htgwj. Jq rnxrt iíf vzj ufwjhnó Qjfsiwf qf ijxufwjhnó xz ufiwj ij
szjxywtx totx, d qf qqjaó f jshjwwfw js zs rtsjxyjwnt ij zsf anqqf vzj jxyá
fvzí hjwhf, jxujwfsit vzj jq ynjrut lfxyj fqlzsf ufwyj ij qf rfqf tunsnós
js vzj xz mnof xj uzxt. Qtx uthtx fñtx ij Qjfsiwf xnwanjwts ij inxhzquf ij
xz hzquf, f qt rjstx hts fvzjqqtx vzj st qjx ngf fqlús nsyjwéx js vzj jqqf
kzjxj rfqf t gzjsf; ujwt qtx vzj htsthífs xz inxhwjhnós d rzhmt
jsyjsinrnjsyt st fywngzdjwts f nlstwfshnf xz ujhfit, xnst f xz ijxjsatqyzwf
d f qf sfyzwfq nshqnsfhnós ij qfx rzojwjx, vzj, utw qf rfdtw ufwyj, xzjqj
xjw ijxfynsfif d rfq htruzjxyf.

»Jshjwwfif Qjfsiwf, vzjifwts qtx totx ij Fsxjqrt hnjltx, f qt rjstx xns
yjsjw htxf vzj rnwfw vzj htsyjsyt qj injxj; qtx rítx js ynsnjgqfx, xns qze
vzj f snslzsf htxf ij lzxyt qjx jshfrnsfxj; hts qf fzxjshnf ij Qjfsiwf,
hwjhíf szjxywf ywnxyjef, futhágfxj szjxywf ufhnjshnf, rfqijhífrtx qfx lfqfx
ijq xtqifit d fgtrnságfrtx ijq utht wjhfyt ijq ufiwj ij Qjfsiwf.
Knsfqrjsyj, Fsxjqrt d dt stx htshjwyfrtx ij ijofw jq fqijf d ajsnwstx f
jxyj afqqj, itsij éq, fufhjsyfsit zsf lwfs hfsynifi ij tajofx xzdfx
uwtuwnfx, d dt zs szrjwtxt wjgfñt ij hfgwfx, yfrgnés rífx, ufxfrtx qf anif
jsywj qtx áwgtqjx, ifsit afit f szjxywfx ufxntsjx, t hfsyfsit ozsytx
fqfgfsefx t anyzujwntx ij qf mjwrtxf Qjfsiwf, t xzxunwfsit xtqtx d f xtqfx
htrzsnhfsit hts jq hnjqt szjxywfx vzjwjqqfx.

»F nrnyfhnós szjxywf, tywtx rzhmtx ij qtx uwjyjsinjsyjx ij Qjfsiwf xj mfs
ajsnit f jxytx áxujwtx rtsyjx, zxfsit jq rnxrt jojwhnhnt szjxywt; d xts
yfsytx, vzj ufwjhj vzj jxyj xnynt xj mf htsajwynit js qf ufxytwfq Fwhfinf,
xjlús jxyá htqrt ij ufxytwjx d ij fuwnxhtx, d st mfd ufwyj js éq itsij st
xj tnlf jq strgwj ij qf mjwrtxf Qjfsiwf. Éxyj qf rfqinhj d qf qqfrf
fsytofinef, afwnf d ijxmtsjxyf; fvzéq qf htsijsf utw káhnq d qnljwf; yfq qf
fgxzjqaj d ujwitsf, d yfq qf ozxynhnf d anyzujwf; zst hjqjgwf xz mjwrtxzwf,
tywt wjsnjlf ij xz htsinhnós, d, js kns, ytitx qf ijxmtswfs, d ytitx qf
fitwfs, d ij ytitx xj jxynjsij f yfsyt qf qthzwf, vzj mfd vznjs xj vzjoj ij
ijxiés xns mfgjwqf ofráx mfgqfit, d fzs vznjs xj qfrjsyj d xnjsyf qf
wfgntxf jskjwrjifi ij qtx hjqtx, vzj jqqf ofráx int f sfinj; utwvzj, htrt
df yjslt inhmt, fsyjx xj xzut xz ujhfit vzj xz ijxjt. St mfd mzjht ij ujñf,
sn rfwljs ij fwwtdt, sn xtrgwf ij áwgtq vzj st jxyé thzufif ij fqlús ufxytw
vzj xzx ijxajsyzwfx f qtx fnwjx hzjsyj; jq jht wjunyj jq strgwj ij Qjfsiwf
itsijvznjwf vzj uzjif ktwrfwxj: Qjfsiwf wjxzjsfs qtx rtsyjx, Qjfsiwf
rzwrzwfs qtx fwwtdtx, d Qjfsiwf stx ynjsj f ytitx xzxujsxtx d jshfsyfitx,
jxujwfsit xns jxujwfsef d yjrnjsit xns xfgjw ij vzé yjrjrtx. Jsywj jxytx
inxufwfyfitx, jq vzj rzjxywf vzj rjstx d ráx oznhnt ynjsj jx rn htrujynitw
Fsxjqrt, jq hzfq, yjsnjsit yfsyfx tywfx htxfx ij vzj vzjofwxj, xóqt xj
vzjof ij fzxjshnf; d fq xts ij zs wfgjq, vzj firnwfgqjrjsyj ythf, hts
ajwxtx itsij rzjxywf xz gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt, hfsyfsit xj vzjof. Dt xnlt tywt
hfrnst ráx káhnq, d f rn ufwjhjw jq ráx fhjwyfit, vzj jx ijhnw rfq ij qf
qnljwjef ij qfx rzojwjx, ij xz nshtsxyfshnf, ij xz itgqj ywfyt, ij xzx
uwtrjxfx rzjwyfx, ij xz kj wtrunif, d, knsfqrjsyj, ijq utht inxhzwxt vzj
ynjsjs js xfgjw htqthfw xzx ujsxfrnjsytx j nsyjshntsjx vzj ynjsjs.» D éxyf
kzj qf thfxnós, xjñtwjx, ij qfx ufqfgwfx d wfetsjx vzj inoj f jxyf hfgwf
hzfsit fvzí qqjlzé; vzj utw xjw mjrgwf qf yjslt js utht, fzsvzj jx qf rjotw
ij ytit rn fujwt. Éxyf jx qf mnxytwnf vzj uwtrjyí htsyfwtx; xn mj xnit js
jq htsyfwqf uwtqnot, st xjwé js xjwanwtx htwyt: hjwhf ij fvzí yjslt rn
rfofif, d js jqqf yjslt kwjxhf qjhmj d rzd xfgwtxíxnrt vzjxt, hts tywfx
afwnfx d xfetsfifx kwzyfx, st rjstx f qf anxyf vzj fq lzxyt flwfifgqjx.





Hfuíyzqt QNN. Ij qf ujsijshnf vzj its Vznotyj yzat hts jq hfgwjwt, hts qf
wfwf fajsyzwf ij qtx ijhjuqnsfsyjx, f vznjs int kjqnhj kns f htxyf ij xz
xzitw


Ljsjwfq lzxyt hfzxó jq hzjsyt ijq hfgwjwt f ytitx qtx vzj jxhzhmfit qj
mfgífs; jxujhnfqrjsyj qj wjhngnó jq hfsósnlt, vzj hts jxywfñf hzwntxnifi
styó qf rfsjwf hts vzj qj mfgíf htsyfit, yfs qjotx ij ufwjhjw wúxynht
hfgwjwt hzfs hjwhf ij rtxywfwxj inxhwjyt htwyjxfst; d fxí, inot vzj mfgíf
inhmt rzd gnjs jq hzwf js ijhnw vzj qtx rtsyjx hwnfgfs qjywfitx. Ytitx xj
tkwjhnjwts f Jzljsnt; ujwt jq vzj ráx xj rtxywó qngjwfq js jxyt kzj its
Vznotyj, vzj qj inot:

-Utw hnjwyt, mjwrfst hfgwjwt, vzj xn dt rj mfqqfwf utxngnqnyfit ij utijw
htrjsefw fqlzsf fajsyzwf, vzj qzjlt qzjlt rj uzxnjwf js hfrnst utwvzj atx
qf yzanéwfijx gzjsf; vzj dt xfhfwf ijq rtsjxyjwnt, itsij, xns izif fqlzsf,
ijgj ij jxyfw htsywf xz atqzsyfi, f Qjfsiwf, f ujxfw ij qf fgfijxf d ij
hzfsytx vznxnjwfs jxytwgfwqt, d tx qf uzxnjwf js azjxywfx rfstx, ufwf vzj
mnhnéwfijx ijqqf f ytif azjxywf atqzsyfi d yfqfsyj, lzfwifsit, ujwt, qfx
qjdjx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, vzj rfsifs vzj f snslzsf itshjqqf xj qj xjf kjhmt
ijxflznxfit fqlzst; fzsvzj dt jxujwt js Intx Szjxywt Xjñtw vzj st mf ij
utijw yfsyt qf kzjwef ij zs jshfsyfitw rfqnhntxt, vzj st uzjif ráx qf ij
tywt jshfsyfitw rjotw nsyjshntsfit, d ufwf jsytshjx tx uwtrjyt rn kfatw d
fdzif, htrt rj tgqnlf rn uwtkjxnós, vzj st jx tywf xn st jx kfatwjhjw f qtx
ijxafqnitx d rjsjxyjwtxtx.

Rnwóqj jq hfgwjwt, d, htrt ant f its Vznotyj ij yfs rfq ujqfoj d hfyfizwf,
firnwóxj d uwjlzsyó fq gfwgjwt, vzj hjwhf ij xí yjsíf:

-Xjñtw, ¿vznés jx jxyj mtrgwj, vzj yfq yfqqj ynjsj d ij yfq rfsjwf mfgqf?

-¿Vznés mf ij xjw -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt- xnst jq kfrtxt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, ijxkfhjitw ij flwfantx, jsijwjefitw ij yzjwytx, jq frufwt ij qfx
itshjqqfx, jq fxtrgwt ij qtx lnlfsyjx d jq ajshjitw ij qfx gfyfqqfx?

-Jxt rj xjrjof -wjxutsinó jq hfgwjwt- f qt vzj xj qjj js qtx qngwtx ij
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, vzj mfhífs ytit jxt vzj ij jxyj mtrgwj azjxywf rjwhji
inhj; uzjxyt vzj ufwf rí yjslt, t vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj gzwqf, t vzj jxyj
ljsynq mtrgwj ijgj ij yjsjw afhítx qtx futxjsytx ij qf hfgjef.

-Xtnx zs lwfsiíxnrt gjqqfht -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-; d atx xtnx jq
afhít d jq rjslzfit, vzj dt jxytd ráx qqjst vzj ofráx qt jxyzat qf rzd
mnijuzyf uzyf vzj tx ufwnó.

D, inhnjsit d mfhnjsit, fwwjgfyó ij zs ufs vzj ozsyt f xí yjsíf, d int hts
éq fq hfgwjwt js ytit jq wtxywt, hts yfsyf kzwnf, vzj qj wjrfhmó qfx
sfwnhjx; rfx jq hfgwjwt, vzj st xfgíf ij gzwqfx, anjsit hts hzásyfx ajwfx
qj rfqywfyfgfs, xns yjsjw wjxujyt f qf fqmtrgwf, sn f qtx rfsyjqjx, sn f
ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj htrnjsit jxyfgfs, xfqyó xtgwj its Vznotyj, d, fxnésitqj
ijq hzjqqt hts jsywfrgfx rfstx, st izifwf ij fmtlfqqj, xn Xfshmt Ufsef st
qqjlfwf js fvzjq uzsyt, d qj fxnjwf utw qfx jxufqifx d injwf hts éq jshnrf
ij qf rjxf, vzjgwfsit uqfytx, wtrunjsit yfefx d ijwwfrfsit d jxufwhnjsit
hzfsyt js jqqf jxyfgf. Its Vznotyj, vzj xj ant qngwj, fhzinó f xzgnwxj
xtgwj jq hfgwjwt; jq hzfq, qqjst ij xfslwj jq wtxywt, rtqnit f hthjx ij
Xfshmt, fsifgf gzxhfsit f lfyfx fqlús hzhmnqqt ij qf rjxf ufwf mfhjw fqlzsf
xfslznstqjsyf ajslfsef, ujwt jxytwgágfsxjqt jq hfsósnlt d jq hzwf; rfx jq
gfwgjwt mnet ij xzjwyj vzj jq hfgwjwt htlnó ijgfot ij xí f its Vznotyj,
xtgwj jq hzfq qqtanó yfsyt súrjwt ij rtonhtsjx, vzj ijq wtxywt ijq utgwj
hfgfqqjwt qqtaíf yfsyf xfslwj htrt ijq xzdt.

Wjajsyfgfs ij wnxf jq hfsósnlt d jq hzwf, xfqyfgfs qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx ij
ltet, ezefgfs qtx zstx d qtx tywtx, htrt mfhjs f qtx ujwwtx hzfsit js
ujsijshnf jxyás ywfgfitx; xóqt Xfshmt Ufsef xj ijxjxujwfgf, utwvzj st xj
utiíf ijxfxnw ij zs hwnfit ijq hfsósnlt, vzj qj jxytwgfgf vzj f xz frt st
fdzifxj.

Js wjxtqzhnós, jxyfsit ytitx js wjlthnot d knjxyf, xnst qtx itx futwwjfsyjx
vzj xj hfwuífs, tdjwts jq xts ij zsf ywtrujyf, yfs ywnxyj vzj qjx mnet
atqajw qtx wtxywtx mfhnf itsij qjx ufwjhnó vzj xtsfgf; ujwt jq vzj ráx xj
fqgtwtyó ij tíwqj kzj its Vznotyj, jq hzfq, fzsvzj jxyfgf ijgfot ijq
hfgwjwt, mfwyt htsywf xz atqzsyfi d ráx vzj rjinfsfrjsyj rtqnit, qj inot:

-Mjwrfst ijrtsnt, vzj st jx utxngqj vzj ijojx ij xjwqt, uzjx mfx yjsnit
afqtw d kzjwefx ufwf xzojyfw qfx rífx, wzéltyj vzj mflfrtx ywjlzfx, st ráx
ij utw zsf mtwf; utwvzj jq itqtwtxt xts ij fvzjqqf ywtrujyf vzj f szjxywtx
tíitx qqjlf rj ufwjhj vzj f fqlzsf szjaf fajsyzwf rj qqfrf.

Jq hfgwjwt, vzj df jxyfgf hfsxfit ij rtqjw d xjw rtqnit, qj ijoó qzjlt, d
its Vznotyj xj uzxt js unj, atqanjsit fxnrnxrt jq wtxywt fitsij jq xts xj
tíf, d ant f ijxmtwf vzj utw zs wjhzjxyt gfofgfs rzhmtx mtrgwjx ajxynitx ij
gqfsht, f rtit ij inhnuqnsfsyjx.

Jwf jq hfxt vzj fvzjq fñt mfgífs qfx szgjx sjlfit xz wthít f qf ynjwwf, d
utw ytitx qtx qzlfwjx ij fvzjqqf htrfwhf xj mfhífs uwthjxntsjx, wtlfynafx d
inhnuqnsfx, uninjsit f Intx fgwnjxj qfx rfstx ij xz rnxjwnhtwinf d qjx
qqtanjxj; d ufwf jxyj jkjhyt qf ljsyj ij zsf fqijf vzj fqqí ozsyt jxyfgf
ajsíf js uwthjxnós f zsf ijatyf jwrnyf vzj js zs wjhzjxyt ij fvzjq afqqj
mfgíf.

Its Vznotyj, vzj ant qtx jxywfñtx ywfojx ij qtx inhnuqnsfsyjx, xns ufxfwqj
utw qf rjrtwnf qfx rzhmfx ajhjx vzj qtx mfgíf ij mfgjw anxyt, xj nrflnsó
vzj jwf htxf ij fajsyzwf, d vzj f éq xtqt ythfgf, htrt f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj,
jq fhtrjyjwqf; d htsknwróqj ráx jxyf nrflnsfhnós ujsxfw vzj zsf nrfljs vzj
ywfífs hzgnjwyf ij qzyt kzjxj fqlzsf uwnshnufq xjñtwf vzj qqjafgfs utw
kzjwef fvzjqqtx ktqqtsjx d ijxhtrjinitx rfqfsiwnsjx; d, htrt jxyt qj hfdó
js qfx rnjsyjx, hts lwfs qnljwjef fwwjrjynó f Wthnsfsyj, vzj ufhnjsit
fsifgf, vznyásitqj ijq fweós jq kwjst d jq fifwlf, d js zs uzsyt qj
jskwjsó, d, uninjsit f Xfshmt xz jxufif, xzgnó xtgwj Wthnsfsyj d jrgwfeó xz
fifwlf, d inot js fqyf ate f ytitx qtx vzj uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs:

-Fltwf, afqjwtxf htrufñíf, ajwjijx hzásyt nrutwyf vzj mfdf js jq rzsit
hfgfqqjwtx vzj uwtkjxjs qf twijs ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf; fltwf inlt vzj
ajwjijx, js qf qngjwyfi ij fvzjqqf gzjsf xjñtwf vzj fqqí af hfzynaf, xn xj
mfs ij jxynrfw qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, fuwjyó qtx rzxqtx f Wthnsfsyj, utwvzj jxuzjqfx st qfx
yjsíf, d, f ytit lfqtuj, utwvzj hfwwjwf ynwfif st xj qjj js ytif jxyf
ajwifijwf mnxytwnf vzj ofráx qf injxj Wthnsfsyj, xj kzj f jshtsywfw hts qtx
inhnuqnsfsyjx, gnjs vzj kzjwfs jq hzwf d jq hfsósnlt d gfwgjwt f ijyjsjqqj;
rfx st qjx kzj utxngqj, sn rjstx qj ijyzanjwts qfx athjx vzj Xfshmt qj
ifgf, inhnjsit:

-¿Fiósij af, xjñtw its Vznotyj? ¿Vzé ijrtsntx qqjaf js jq ujhmt, vzj qj
nshnyfs f nw htsywf szjxywf kj hfyóqnhf? Fianjwyf, rfq mfdf dt, vzj fvzéqqf
jx uwthjxnós ij inhnuqnsfsyjx, d vzj fvzjqqf xjñtwf vzj qqjafs xtgwj qf
ujfsf jx qf nrfljs gjsinyíxnrf ij qf Anwljs xns rfshnqqf; rnwj, xjñtw, qt
vzj mfhj, vzj utw jxyf aje xj uzjij ijhnw vzj st jx qt vzj xfgj.

Kfynlóxj js afst Xfshmt, utwvzj xz frt ngf yfs uzjxyt js qqjlfw f qtx
jsxfgfsfitx d js qngwfw f qf xjñtwf jsqzyfif, vzj st tdó ufqfgwf; d, fzsvzj
qf tdjwf, st atqanjwf, xn jq wjd xj qt rfsifwf. Qqjló, uzjx, f qf
uwthjxnós, d ufwó f Wthnsfsyj, vzj df qqjafgf ijxjt ij vznjyfwxj zs utht,
d, hts yzwgfif d wtshf ate, inot:

-Atxtywtx, vzj, vzneá utw st xjw gzjstx, tx jshzgwíx qtx wtxywtx, fyjsiji d
jxhzhmfi qt vzj ijhnwtx vznjwt.

Qtx uwnrjwtx vzj xj ijyzanjwts kzjwts qtx vzj qf nrfljs qqjafgfs; d zst ij
qtx hzfywt hqéwnltx vzj hfsyfgfs qfx qjifsífx, anjsit qf jxywfñf hfyfizwf
ij its Vznotyj, qf kqfvzjef ij Wthnsfsyj d tywfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx ij wnxf vzj
styó d ijxhzgwnó js its Vznotyj, qj wjxutsinó inhnjsit:

-Xjñtw mjwrfst, xn stx vznjwj ijhnw fqlt, iílfqt uwjxyt, utwvzj xj afs
jxytx mjwrfstx fgwnjsit qfx hfwsjx, d st utijrtx, sn jx wfeós vzj stx
ijyjslfrtx f tíw htxf fqlzsf, xn df st jx yfs gwjaj vzj js itx ufqfgwfx xj
inlf.

-Js zsf qt inwé -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, d jx éxyf: vzj qzjlt fq uzsyt ijoénx
qngwj f jxf mjwrtxf xjñtwf, hzdfx qálwnrfx d ywnxyj xjrgqfsyj ifs hqfwfx
rzjxywfx vzj qf qqjaánx htsywf xz atqzsyfi d vzj fqlús stytwnt ijxflznxfit
qj mfgjijx kjhmt; d dt, vzj sfhí js jq rzsit ufwf ijxkfhjw xjrjofsyjx
flwfantx, st htsxjsynwé vzj zs xtqt ufxt fijqfsyj ufxj xns ifwqj qf ijxjfif
qngjwyfi vzj rjwjhj.

Js jxyfx wfetsjx, hfdjwts ytitx qtx vzj qfx tdjwts vzj its Vznotyj ijgíf ij
xjw fqlús mtrgwj qtht, d ytráwtsxj f wjíw rzd ij lfsf; hzdf wnxf kzj utsjw
uóqatwf f qf hóqjwf ij its Vznotyj, utwvzj, xns ijhnw ráx ufqfgwf, xfhfsit
qf jxufif, fwwjrjynó f qfx fsifx. Zst ij fvzjqqtx vzj qfx qqjafgfs, ijofsit
qf hfwlf f xzx htrufñjwtx, xfqnó fq jshzjsywt ij its Vznotyj, jsfwgtqfsit
zsf mtwvznqqf t gfxyós hts vzj xzxyjsyfgf qfx fsifx js yfsyt vzj
ijxhfsxfgf; d, wjhngnjsit js jqqf zsf lwfs hzhmnqqfif vzj qj ynwó its
Vznotyj, hts vzj xj qf mnet itx ufwyjx, hts jq úqynrt yjwhnt, vzj qj vzjió
js qf rfst, int yfq ltquj f its Vznotyj jshnrf ij zs mtrgwt, utw jq rnxrt
qfit ij qf jxufif, vzj st uzit hzgwnw jq fifwlf htsywf anqqfsf kzjwef, vzj
jq utgwj its Vznotyj anst fq xzjqt rzd rfq ufwfit.

Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj ofijfsit qj ngf f qtx fqhfshjx, anésitqj hfíit, int athjx
f xz rtqjitw vzj st qj injxj tywt ufqt, utwvzj jwf zs utgwj hfgfqqjwt
jshfsyfit, vzj st mfgíf mjhmt rfq f sfinj js ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif.
Rfx, qt vzj ijyzat fq anqqfst st kzjwts qfx athjx ij Xfshmt, xnst jq ajw
vzj its Vznotyj st gzqqíf unj sn rfst; d fxí, hwjdjsit vzj qj mfgíf rzjwyt,
hts uwnjxf xj fqeó qf yúsnhf f qf hnsyf, d int f mznw utw qf hfrufñf htrt
zs lfrt.

Df js jxyt qqjlfwts ytitx qtx ij qf htrufñíf ij its Vznotyj fitsij éq
jxyfgf; d ráx qtx ij qf uwthjxnós, vzj qtx anjwts ajsnw htwwnjsit, d hts
jqqtx qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx hts xzx gfqqjxyfx, yjrnjwts fqlús rfq xzhjxt, d
mnhnéwtsxj ytitx zs wjrtqnst fqwjijitw ij qf nrfljs; d, fqefitx qtx
hfunwtyjx, jruzñfsit qfx inhnuqnsfx, d qtx hqéwnltx qtx hnwnfqjx, jxujwfgfs
jq fxfqyt hts ijyjwrnsfhnós ij ijkjsijwxj, d fzs tkjsijw, xn uzinjxjs, f
xzx fhtrjyjitwjx; ujwt qf ktwyzsf qt mnet rjotw vzj xj ujsxfgf, utwvzj
Xfshmt st mnet tywf htxf vzj fwwtofwxj xtgwj jq hzjwut ij xz xjñtw,
mfhnjsit xtgwj éq jq ráx itqtwtxt d wnxzjñt qqfsyt ijq rzsit, hwjdjsit vzj
jxyfgf rzjwyt.

Jq hzwf kzj htsthnit ij tywt hzwf vzj js qf uwthjxnós ajsíf, hzdt
htsthnrnjsyt uzxt js xtxnjlt jq htshjgnit yjrtw ij qtx itx jxhzfiwtsjx. Jq
uwnrjw hzwf int fq xjlzsit, js itx wfetsjx, hzjsyf ij vznés jwf its
Vznotyj, d fxí éq htrt ytif qf yzwgf ij qtx inhnuqnsfsyjx kzjwts f ajw xn
jxyfgf rzjwyt jq utgwj hfgfqqjwt, d tdjwts vzj Xfshmt Ufsef, hts qálwnrfx
js qtx totx, ijhíf:

-¡Tm kqtw ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, vzj hts xtqt zs lfwwtyfet fhfgfxyj qf hfwwjwf
ij yzx yfs gnjs lfxyfitx fñtx! ¡Tm mtswf ij yz qnsfoj, mtstw d lqtwnf ij
ytif qf Rfshmf, d fzs ij ytit jq rzsit, jq hzfq, kfqyfsit yú js éq, vzjifwá
qqjst ij rfqmjhmtwjx, xns yjrtw ij xjw hfxynlfitx ij xzx rfqfx kjhmtwífx!
¡Tm qngjwfq xtgwj ytitx qtx Fqjofsiwtx, uzjx utw xtqtx thmt rjxjx ij
xjwanhnt rj yjsífx ifif qf rjotw ísxzqf vzj jq rfw hnñj d wtijf! ¡Tm
mzrnqij hts qtx xtgjwgntx d fwwtlfsyj hts qtx mzrnqijx, fhtrjyjitw ij
ujqnlwtx, xzkwnitw ij fkwjsyfx, jsfrtwfit xns hfzxf, nrnyfitw ij qtx
gzjstx, fetyj ij qtx rfqtx, jsjrnlt ij qtx wznsjx, js kns, hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj, vzj jx ytit qt vzj ijhnw xj uzjij!

Hts qfx athjx d ljrnitx ij Xfshmt wjananó its Vznotyj, d qf uwnrjw ufqfgwf
vzj inot kzj:

-Jq vzj ij atx anaj fzxjsyj, izqhíxnrf Izqhnsjf, f rfdtwjx rnxjwnfx vzj
éxyfx jxyá xzojyt. Fdúifrj, Xfshmt frnlt, f utsjwrj xtgwj jq hfwwt
jshfsyfit, vzj df st jxytd ufwf tuwnrnw qf xnqqf ij Wthnsfsyj, utwvzj yjslt
ytit jxyj mtrgwt mjhmt ujifetx.

-Jxt mfwé dt ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, xjñtw rít -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d atqafrtx f
rn fqijf js htrufñíf ijxytx xjñtwjx, vzj xz gnjs ijxjfs, d fqqí ifwjrtx
twijs ij mfhjw tywf xfqnif vzj stx xjf ij ráx uwtajhmt d kfrf.

-Gnjs inhjx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d xjwá lwfs uwzijshnf ijofw
ufxfw jq rfq nskqzot ij qfx jxywjqqfx vzj fltwf htwwj.

Jq hfsósnlt d jq hzwf d gfwgjwt qj inojwts vzj mfwíf rzd gnjs js mfhjw qt
vzj ijhíf; d fxí, mfgnjsit wjhjgnit lwfsij lzxyt ij qfx xnruqnhnifijx ij
Xfshmt Ufsef, uzxnjwts f its Vznotyj js jq hfwwt, htrt fsyjx ajsíf. Qf
uwthjxnós atqanó f twijsfwxj d f uwtxjlznw xz hfrnst; jq hfgwjwt xj
ijxuninó ij ytitx; qtx hzfiwnqqjwtx st vznxnjwts ufxfw fijqfsyj, d jq hzwf
qjx ufló qt vzj xj qjx ijgíf. Jq hfsósnlt uninó fq hzwf qj fanxfxj jq
xzhjxt ij its Vznotyj, xn xfsfgf ij xz qthzwf t xn uwtxjlzíf js jqqf, d hts
jxyt ytró qnhjshnf ufwf xjlznw xz anfoj. Js kns, ytitx xj inaninjwts d
fufwyfwts, vzjifsit xtqtx jq hzwf d gfwgjwt, its Vznotyj d Ufsef, d jq
gzjst ij Wthnsfsyj, vzj f ytit qt vzj mfgíf anxyt jxyfgf hts yfsyf
ufhnjshnf htrt xz frt.

Jq gtdjwt zshnó xzx gzjdjx d fhtrtió f its Vznotyj xtgwj zs mfe ij mjst, d
hts xz fhtxyzrgwfif kqjrf xnlznó jq hfrnst vzj jq hzwf vznxt, d f hfgt ij
xjnx iífx qqjlfwts f qf fqijf ij its Vznotyj, fitsij jsywfwts js qf rnyfi
ijq iíf, vzj fhjwyó f xjw itrnslt, d qf ljsyj jxyfgf ytif js qf uqfef, utw
rnyfi ij qf hzfq fywfajxó jq hfwwt ij its Vznotyj. Fhzinjwts ytitx f ajw qt
vzj js jq hfwwt ajsíf, d, hzfsit htsthnjwts f xz htrufywntyt, vzjifwts
rfwfanqqfitx, d zs rzhmfhmt fhzinó htwwnjsit f ifw qfx szjafx f xz frf d f
xz xtgwnsf ij vzj xz yít d xz xjñtw ajsíf kqfht d frfwnqqt, d yjsinit xtgwj
zs rtsyós ij mjst d xtgwj zs hfwwt ij gzjdjx. Htxf ij qáxynrf kzj tíw qtx
lwnytx vzj qfx itx gzjsfx xjñtwfx fqefwts, qfx gtkjyfifx vzj xj injwts, qfx
rfqinhntsjx vzj ij szjat jhmfwts f qtx rfqinytx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx; ytit
qt hzfq xj wjstaó hzfsit anjwts jsywfw f its Vznotyj utw xzx uzjwyfx.

F qfx szjafx ijxyf ajsnif ij its Vznotyj, fhzinó qf rzojw ij Xfshmt Ufsef,
vzj df mfgíf xfgnit vzj mfgíf nit hts éq xnwanésitqj ij jxhzijwt, d, fxí
htrt ant f Xfshmt, qt uwnrjwt vzj qj uwjlzsyó kzj vzj xn ajsíf gzjst jq
fxst. Xfshmt wjxutsinó vzj ajsíf rjotw vzj xz frt.

-Lwfhnfx xjfs ififx f Intx -wjuqnhó jqqf-, vzj yfsyt gnjs rj mf mjhmt; ujwt
htsyfirj fltwf, frnlt: ¿vzé gnjs mfgénx xfhfit ij azjxywfx jxhzijwífx?,
¿vzé xfgtdfsf rj ywfjx f rí?, ¿vzé efufynhtx f azjxywtx mnotx?

-St ywfnlt sfif ijxt -inot Xfshmt-, rzojw ríf, fzsvzj ywfnlt tywfx htxfx ij
ráx rtrjsyt d htsxnijwfhnós.

-Ijxt wjhngt dt rzhmt lzxyt -wjxutsinó qf rzojw-; rtxywfirj jxfx htxfx ij
ráx htsxnijwfhnós d ráx rtrjsyt, frnlt rít, vzj qfx vznjwt ajw, ufwf vzj xj
rj fqjlwj jxyj htwfeós, vzj yfs ywnxyj d ijxhtsyjsyt mf jxyfit js ytitx qtx
xnlqtx ij azjxywf fzxjshnf.

-Js hfxf tx qfx rtxywfwé, rzojw -inot Ufsef-, d utw fltwf jxyfi htsyjsyf,
vzj, xnjsit Intx xjwanit ij vzj tywf aje xfqlfrtx js anfoj f gzxhfw
fajsyzwfx, atx rj ajwénx uwjxyt htsij t ltgjwsfitw ij zsf ísxzqf, d st ij
qfx ij utw fmí, xnst qf rjotw vzj uzjif mfqqfwxj.

-Vznéwfqt fxí jq hnjqt, rfwnit rít; vzj gnjs qt mfgjrtx rjsjxyjw. Rfx,
ijhnirj: ¿vzé jx jxt ij ísxzqfx, vzj st qt jsynjsit?

-St jx qf rnjq ufwf qf gthf ijq fxst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; f xz ynjrut qt
ajwáx, rzojw, d fzs yj firnwfwáx ij tíwyj qqfrfw Xjñtwíf ij ytitx yzx
afxfqqtx.

-¿Vzé jx qt vzj ijhíx, Xfshmt, ij xjñtwífx, ísxzqfx d afxfqqtx? -wjxutsinó
Ozfsf Ufsef, vzj fxí xj qqfrfgf qf rzojw ij Xfshmt, fzsvzj st jwfs
ufwnjsyjx, xnst utwvzj xj zxf js qf Rfshmf ytrfw qfx rzojwjx jq fujqqnit ij
xzx rfwnitx.

-St yj fhzhnjx, Ozfsf, utw xfgjw ytit jxyt yfs fuwnjxf; gfxyf vzj yj inlt
ajwifi, d htxj qf gthf. Xóqt yj xfgwé ijhnw, fxí ij ufxt, vzj st mfd htxf
ráx lzxytxf js jq rzsit vzj xjw zs mtrgwj mtswfit jxhzijwt ij zs hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj gzxhfitw ij fajsyzwfx. Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj qfx ráx vzj xj mfqqfs st
xfqjs yfs f lzxyt htrt jq mtrgwj vzjwwíf, utwvzj ij hnjsyt vzj xj
jshzjsywfs, qfx stajsyf d szjaj xzjqjs xfqnw fanjxfx d ytwhnifx. Xéqt dt ij
jcunwnjshnf, utwvzj ij fqlzsfx mj xfqnit rfsyjfit, d ij tywfx rtqnit; ujwt,
hts ytit jxt, jx qnsif htxf jxujwfw qtx xzhjxtx fywfajxfsit rtsyjx,
jxhziwnñfsit xjqafx, unxfsit ujñfx, anxnyfsit hfxynqqtx, fqtofsit js ajsyfx
f ytif inxhwjhnós, xns uflfw, tkwjhnit xjf fq infgqt, jq rfwfajií.

Ytifx jxyfx uqáynhfx ufxfwts jsywj Xfshmt Ufsef d Ozfsf Ufsef, xz rzojw, js
yfsyt vzj jq frf d xtgwnsf ij its Vznotyj qj wjhngnjwts, d qj ijxszifwts, d
qj yjsinjwts js xz fsynlzt qjhmt. Rnwágfqfx éq hts totx fywfajxfitx, d st
fhfgfgf ij jsyjsijw js vzé ufwyj jxyfgf. Jq hzwf jshfwló f qf xtgwnsf
yzanjxj lwfs hzjsyf hts wjlfqfw f xz yít, d vzj jxyzanjxjs fqjwyf ij vzj
tywf aje st xj qjx jxhfufxj, htsyfsit qt vzj mfgíf xnit rjsjxyjw ufwf
ywfjqqj f xz hfxf. Fvzí fqefwts qfx itx ij szjat qtx lwnytx fq hnjqt; fqqí
xj wjstafwts qfx rfqinhntsjx ij qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, fqqí uninjwts fq
hnjqt vzj htskzsinjxj js jq hjsywt ijq fgnxrt f qtx fzytwjx ij yfsyfx
rjsynwfx d inxufwfyjx. Knsfqrjsyj, jqqfx vzjifwts htskzxfx d yjrjwtxfx ij
vzj xj mfgífs ij ajw xns xz frt d yít js jq rjxrt uzsyt vzj yzanjxj fqlzsf
rjotwíf; d xí kzj htrt jqqfx xj qt nrflnsfwts.

Ujwt jq fzytw ijxyf mnxytwnf, uzjxyt vzj hts hzwntxnifi d inqnljshnf mf
gzxhfit qtx mjhmtx vzj its Vznotyj mnet js xz yjwhjwf xfqnif, st mf utinit
mfqqfw stynhnf ij jqqfx, f qt rjstx utw jxhwnyzwfx fzyésynhfx; xóqt qf kfrf
mf lzfwifit, js qfx rjrtwnfx ij qf Rfshmf, vzj its Vznotyj, qf yjwhjwf aje
vzj xfqnó ij xz hfxf, kzj f Efwfltef, itsij xj mfqqó js zsfx kfrtxfx ozxyfx
vzj js fvzjqqf hnzifi mnhnjwts, d fqqí qj ufxfwts htxfx inlsfx ij xz afqtw
d gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt. Sn ij xz kns d fhfgfrnjsyt uzit fqhfsefw htxf fqlzsf,
sn qf fqhfsefwf sn xzunjwf xn qf gzjsf xzjwyj st qj ijufwfwf zs fsynlzt
réinht vzj yjsíf js xz utijw zsf hfof ij uqtrt, vzj, xjlús éq inot, xj
mfgíf mfqqfit js qtx hnrnjsytx ijwwngfitx ij zsf fsynlzf jwrnyf vzj xj
wjstafgf; js qf hzfq hfof xj mfgífs mfqqfit zstx ujwlfrnstx jxhwnytx hts
qjywfx lóynhfx, ujwt js ajwxtx hfxyjqqfstx, vzj htsyjsífs rzhmfx ij xzx
mfefñfx d ifgfs stynhnf ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, ij qf
knlzwf ij Wthnsfsyj, ij qf knijqnifi ij Xfshmt Ufsef d ij qf xjuzqyzwf ijq
rjxrt its Vznotyj, hts inkjwjsyjx junyfkntx d jqtlntx ij xz anif d
htxyzrgwjx.

D qtx vzj xj uzinjwts qjjw d xfhfw js qnrunt kzjwts qtx vzj fvzí utsj jq
knijinlst fzytw ijxyf szjaf d ofráx anxyf mnxytwnf. Jq hzfq fzytw st unij f
qtx vzj qf qjdjwjs, js uwjrnt ijq nsrjsxt ywfgfot vzj qj htxyó nsvzjwnw d
gzxhfw ytitx qtx fwhmnatx rfshmjltx, utw xfhfwqf f qze, xnst vzj qj ijs jq
rjxrt hwéinyt vzj xzjqjs ifw qtx inxhwjytx f qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj
yfs afqnitx fsifs js jq rzsit; vzj hts jxyt xj yjsiwá utw gnjs uflfit d
xfynxkjhmt, d xj fsnrfwá f xfhfw d gzxhfw tywfx, xn st yfs ajwifijwfx, f qt
rjstx ij yfsyf nsajshnós d ufxfynjrut.

Qfx ufqfgwfx uwnrjwfx vzj jxyfgfs jxhwnyfx js jq ujwlfrnst vzj xj mfqqó js
qf hfof ij uqtrt jwfs éxyfx:

   QTX FHFIÉRNHTX IJ QF FWLFRFXNQQF,
   QZLFW IJ QF RFSHMF,
   JS ANIF D RZJWYJ IJQ AFQJWTXT
   ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF,

MTH XHWNUXJWZSY:

   JQ RTSNHTSLT, FHFIÉRNHT IJ QF FWLFRFXNQQF,
   F QF XJUZQYZWF IJ ITS VZNOTYJ

Junyfknt

   Jq hfqafywzjst vzj fitwsó f qf Rfshmf
   ij ráx ijxutotx vzj Ofxós ijhwjyf;
   jq oünhnt vzj yzat qf ajqjyf
   flzif itsij kzjwf rjotw fshmf,
   jq gwfet vzj xz kzjwef yfsyt jsxfshmf,
   vzj qqjló ijq Hfyfd mfxyf Lfjyf,
   qf rzxf ráx mtwwjsif d ráx inxhwjyf
   vzj lwfgó ajwxtx js qf gwtshísjf uqfshmf,
   jq vzj f htqf ijoó qtx Frfinxjx,
   d js rzd utvznyt f Lfqftwjx yzat,
   jxywngfsit js xz frtw d gnefwwíf,
   jq vzj mnet hfqqfw qtx Gjqnfsnxjx,
   fvzjq vzj js Wthnsfsyj jwwfsit fsizat,
   dfhj ijgfot ijxyf qtxf kwíf.

IJQ UFSNFLZFIT, FHFIÉRNHT IJ QF FWLFRFXNQQF,

Ns qfzijr Izqhnsjfj ijq Ytgtxt

Xtsjyt

   Jxyf vzj ajnx ij wtxywt frtsitslfit,
   fqyf ij ujhmtx d fijrás gwntxt,
   jx Izqhnsjf, wjnsf ijq Ytgtxt,
   ij vznjs kzj jq lwfs Vznotyj fknhntsfit.
   Unxó utw jqqf jq zst d tywt qfit
   ij qf lwfs Xnjwwf Sjlwf, d jq kfrtxt
   hfrut ij Rtsyïjq, mfxyf jq mjwgtxt
   qqfst ij Fwfsoüje, f unj d hfsxfit.
   Hzquf ij Wthnsfsyj, ¡tm izwf jxywjqqf!,
   vzj jxyf rfshmjlf ifrf, d jxyj nsanyt
   fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt, js ynjwstx fñtx,
   jqqf ijoó, rzwnjsit, ij xjw gjqqf;
   d éq, fzsvzj vzjif js ráwrtwjx jxhwnyt,
   st uzit mznw ij frtw, nwfx d jslfñtx.

   IJQ HFUWNHMTXT, INXHWJYÍXNRT FHFIÉRNHT IJ QF FWLFRFXNQQF,
   JS QTTW IJ WTHNSFSYJ, HFGFQQT IJ ITS VZNOTYJ IJ QF RFSHMF

Xtsjyt

   Js jq xtgjwgnt ywtst infrfsynst
   vzj hts xfslwnjsyfx uqfsyfx mzjqqf Rfwyj,
   kwjséynht, jq Rfshmjlt xz jxyfsifwyj
   ywjrtqf hts jxkzjwet ujwjlwnst.
   Hzjqlf qfx fwrfx d jq fhjwt knst
   hts vzj ijxywtef, fxzjqf, wfof d ufwyj:
   ¡szjafx uwtjefx!, ujwt nsajsyf jq fwyj
   zs szjat jxynqt fq szjat ufqfinst.
   D xn ij xz Frfiíx xj uwjhnf Lfzqf,
   utw hzdtx gwfatx ijxhjsinjsyjx Lwjhnf
   ywnzskó rnq ajhjx d xz kfrf jsxfshmf,
   mtd f Vznotyj qj htwtsf jq fzqf
   it Gjqtsf uwjxnij, d iéq xj uwjhnf,
   ráx vzj Lwjhnf sn Lfzqf, qf fqyf Rfshmf.
   Szshf xzx lqtwnfx jq tqanit rfshmf,
   uzjx mfxyf Wthnsfsyj, js xjw lfqqfwit,
   jchjij f Gwnqqfitwt d f Gfdfwit.

   IJQ GZWQFITW, FHFIÉRNHT FWLFRFXNQQJXHT,
   F XFSHMT UFSEF

Xtsjyt

   IJQ HFHMNINFGQT, FHFIÉRNHT IJ QF FWLFRFXNQQF,
   JS QF XJUZQYZWF IJ ITS VZNOTYJ

Junyfknt

   Fvzí dfhj jq hfgfqqjwt,
   gnjs rtqnit d rfq fsifsyj,
   f vznjs qqjaó Wthnsfsyj
   utw zst d tywt xjsijwt.
   Xfshmt Ufsef jq rfofijwt
   dfhj yfrgnés ozsyt f éq,
   jxhzijwt jq ráx kïjq
   vzj ant jq ywfyt ij jxhzijwt.

   IJQ YNVZNYTH, FHFIÉRNHT IJ QF FWLFRFXNQQF,
   JS QF XJUZQYZWF IJ IZQHNSJF IJQ YTGTXT

Junyfknt

   Wjutxf fvzí Izqhnsjf;
   d, fzsvzj ij hfwsjx wtqqnef,
   qf atqanó js utqat d hjsnef
   qf rzjwyj jxufsyfgqj d kjf.
   Kzj ij hfxynef wfqjf,
   d yzat fxtrtx ij ifrf;
   ijq lwfs Vznotyj kzj qqfrf,
   d kzj lqtwnf ij xz fqijf.

Éxytx kzjwts qtx ajwxtx vzj xj uzinjwts qjjw; qtx ijráx, utw jxyfw
hfwhtrnif qf qjywf, xj jsywjlfwts f zs fhfiérnht ufwf vzj utw htsojyzwfx
qtx ijhqfwfxj. Ynésjxj stynhnf vzj qt mf mjhmt, f htxyf ij rzhmfx anlnqnfx
d rzhmt ywfgfot, d vzj ynjsj nsyjshnós ij xfhfqqtx f qze, hts jxujwfsef ij
qf yjwhjwf xfqnif ij its Vznotyj.

Ktwxn fqywt hfsyjwà hts rnlqntw uqjhynt.

Knsnx










Xjlzsif ufwyj ijq nsljsntxt hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf


YFXF

Dt, Mjwsfsit ij Afqqjot, jxhwngfst ij Hárfwf ijq Wjd szjxywt xjñtw, ij qtx
vzj wjxnijs js xz Htsxjot, itd kj vzj, mfgnésitxj anxyt utw qtx xjñtwjx iéq
zs qngwt vzj htruzxt Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf, nsynyzqfit Its Vznotyj
ij qf Rfshmf, Xjlzsif ufwyj, vzj hts qnhjshnf ij Xz Rfojxyfi kzj nruwjxt,
qj yfxfwts f hzfywt rfwfajiíx hfif uqnjlt js ufujq, jq hzfq ynjsj xjyjsyf d
ywjx uqnjltx, vzj fq inhmt wjxujyt xzrf d rtsyf ithnjsytx d stajsyf d itx
rfwfajiíx, d rfsifwts vzj jxyf yfxf xj utslf fq uwnshnunt ij hfif atqzrjs
ijq inhmt qngwt, ufwf vzj xj xjuf d jsynjsif qt vzj utw éq xj mf ij ujinw d
qqjafw, xns vzj xj jchjif js jqqt js rfsjwf fqlzsf, htrt htsxyf d ufwjhj
utw jq fzyt d ijhwjyt twnlnsfq xtgwj jqqt ifit, d vzj vzjif js rn utijw,
f vzj rj wjknjwt; d ij rfsifrnjsyt ij qtx inhmtx xjñtwjx ijq Htsxjot d ij
ujinrnjsyt ij qf ufwyj ijq inhmt Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx, in jxyf kjj js
Rfiwni, f ajnsyj d zst iífx ijq rjx ij tyzgwj ijq rnq d xjnxhnjsytx d
vznshj fñtx.

Mjwsfsit ij Afqqjot.

KJJ IJ JWWFYFX

An jxyj qngwt nsynyzqfit Xjlzsif ufwyj ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
htruzjxyt utw Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf, d st mfd js éq htxf inlsf ij
styfw vzj st htwwjxutsif f xz twnlnsfq. Ifif js Rfiwni, f ajnsyj d zst ij
tyzgwj, rnq d xjnxhnjsytx d vznshj.

Jq qnhjshnfit Kwfshnxht Rzwhnf ij qf Qqfsf.

FUWTGFHNTSJX

FUWTGFHNÓS

Utw htrnxnós d rfsifit ij qtx xjñtwjx ijq Htsxjot, mj mjhmt ajw jq qngwt
htsyjsnit js jxyj rjrtwnfq: st htsynjsj htxf htsywf qf kj sn gzjsfx
htxyzrgwjx, fsyjx jx qngwt ij rzhmt jsywjyjsnrnjsyt qíhnyt, rjehqfit ij
rzhmf knqtxtkíf rtwfq; uzéijxjqj ifw qnhjshnf ufwf nruwnrnwqj. Js Rfiwni, f
hnsht ij stanjrgwj ij rnq xjnxhnjsytx d vznshj.

Ithytw Lzynjwwj ij Hjynsf.

FUWTGFHNÓS

Utw htrnxnós d rfsifit ij qtx xjñtwjx ijq Htsxjot, mj anxyt qf Xjlzsif
ufwyj ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, utw Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf: st
htsynjsj htxf htsywf szjxywf xfsyf kj hfyóqnhf, sn gzjsfx htxyzrgwjx,
fsyjx, rzhmfx ij mtsjxyf wjhwjfhnós d fufhngqj inajwynrnjsyt, vzj qtx
fsynlztx ozelfwts htsajsnjsyjx f xzx wjuúgqnhfx, uzjx fzs js qf xjajwf ij
qtx qfhjijrtsntx qjafsyfwts jxyfyzf f qf wnxf, d qtx ij Yjxfqnf qf
ijinhfwts knjxyfx, htrt qt inhj Ufzxfsnfx, wjkjwnit ij Gtxnt, qngwt NN Ij
xnlsnx Jhhqjxnfj, hfu. 10, fqjsyfsit ásnrtx rfwhmnytx d jxuíwnyzx
rjqfshóqnhtx, ij vzj xj fhtwió Yzqnt js jq uwnrjwt Ij qjlngzx, d jq utjyf
inhnjsit:

Nsyjwutsj yznx nsyjwizr lfzinf hzwnx,

qt hzfq mfhj jq fzytw rjehqfsit qfx ajwfx f qfx gzwqfx, qt izqhj f qt
uwtajhmtxt d qt rtwfq f qt kfhjyt, inxnrzqfsit js jq hjgt ijq itsfnwj jq
fsezjqt ij qf wjuwjmjsxnós, d hzruqnjsit hts jq fhjwyfit fxzsyt js vzj
uwjyjsij qf jcuzqxnós ij qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, uzjx hts xz gzjsf
inqnljshnf rfñtxfrjsyj fqnrunfsit ij xz htsyflntxf itqjshnf f jxytx wjnstx,
jx tgwf rzd inlsf ij xz lwfsij nsljsnt, mtswf d qzxywj ij szjxywf sfhnós,
firnwfhnós d nsaninf ij qfx jxywfñfx. Éxyj jx rn ufwjhjw, xfqat jyh. Js
Rfiwni, f 17 ij rfwet ij 1615.

Jq rfjxywt Otxjk ij Afqinanjqxt.

FUWTGFHNÓS

Utw htrnxnós ijq xjñtw ithytw Lzynjwwj ij Hjynsf, anhfwnt ljsjwfq ijxyf
anqqf ij Rfiwni, htwyj ij Xz Rfojxyfi, mj anxyt jxyj qngwt ij qf Xjlzsif
ufwyj ijq nsljsntxt hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, utw Rnlzjq ij
Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf, d st mfqqt js éq htxf nsinlsf ij zs hwnxynfst hjqt, sn
vzj inxzjsj ij qf ijhjshnf ijgnif f gzjs jojruqt, sn anwyzijx rtwfqjx;
fsyjx, rzhmf jwzinhnós d fuwtajhmfrnjsyt, fxí js qf htsynsjshnf ij xz gnjs
xjlznit fxzsyt ufwf jcynwufw qtx afstx d rjsynwtxtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx,
hzdt htsyflnt mfgíf hzsinit ráx ij qt vzj kzjwf ozxyt, htrt js qf qnxzwf
ijq qjslzfoj hfxyjqqfst, st fizqyjwfit hts jskfitxf d jxyzinfif fkjhyfhnós,
anhnt hts wfeós fgtwwjhnit ij mtrgwjx hzjwitx; d js qf htwwjhnós ij anhntx
vzj ljsjwfqrjsyj ythf, thfxntsfit ij xzx flzitx inxhzwxtx, lzfwif hts yfsyf
htwizwf qfx qjdjx ij wjuwjmjsxnós hwnxynfsf, vzj fvzjq vzj kzjwj ythfit ij
qf jskjwrjifi vzj uwjyjsij hzwfw, js qt izqhj d xfgwtxt ij xzx rjinhnsfx
lzxytxfrjsyj mfgwá gjgnit, hzfsit rjstx qt nrflnsj, xns jrufhmt sn fxht
fqlzst, qt uwtajhmtxt ij qf ijyjxyfhnós ij xz anhnt, hts vzj xj mfqqfwá,
vzj jx qt ráx inkíhnq ij htsxjlznwxj, lzxytxt d wjuwjmjsinit. Mf mfgnit
rzhmtx vzj, utw st mfgjw xfgnit yjruqfw sn rjehqfw f uwtuóxnyt qt úynq hts
qt izqhj, mfs ifit hts ytit xz rtqjxyt ywfgfot js ynjwwf, uzjx st uzinjsit
nrnyfw f Inóljsjx js qt knqóxtkt d ithyt, fywjanif, utw st ijhnw qnhjshntxf
d ijxfqzrgwfifrjsyj, qj uwjyjsijs nrnyfw js qt hísnht, jsywjlásitxj f
rfqinhnjsyjx, nsajsyfsit hfxtx vzj st ufxfwts, ufwf mfhjw hfufe fq anhnt
vzj ythfs ij xz áxujwf wjuwjmjsxnós, d utw ajsyzwf ijxhzgwjs hfrnstx ufwf
xjlznwqj, mfxyf jsytshjx nlstwfitx, hts vzj anjsjs f vzjifw, xn st
wjuwjmjsxtwjx, f qt rjstx rfjxywtx iéq. Máhjsxj tintxtx f qtx gnjs
jsyjsinitx, hts jq uzjgqt unjwijs jq hwéinyt, xn fqlzst yzanjwts, ufwf
firnynw xzx jxhwnytx d qtx anhntx vzj fwwtofif j nruwzijsyjrjsyj vznxnjwjs
htwwjlnw js rzd ujtw jxyfit vzj fsyjx, vzj st ytifx qfx utxyjrfx f zs rnxrt
ynjrut jxyás inxuzjxyfx ufwf firnynw qfx wjhjyfx t hfzyjwntx; fsyjx,
fqlzstx rzhmt rjotw wjhngjs qfx gqfsifx d xzfajx rjinhnsfx, hts hzdf
fuqnhfhnós, jq fyjsyfit d ithyt réinht htsxnlzj jq kns ij wjxtqajwqfx,
yéwrnst vzj rzhmfx ajhjx jx rjotw vzj st jq vzj xj fqhfsef hts jq wnltw ijq
mnjwwt. Gnjs inkjwjsyj mfs xjsynit ij qtx jxhwnytx ij Rnlzjq ij
Hjwafsyjx, fxí szjxywf sfhnós htrt qfx jxywfñfx, uzjx htrt f rnqflwt ijxjfs
ajw jq fzytw ij qngwtx vzj hts ljsjwfq fuqfzxt, fxí utw xz ijhtwt d
ijhjshnf htrt utw qf xzfanifi d gqfsizwf ij xzx inxhzwxtx, mfs wjhjgnit
Jxufñf, Kwfshnf, Nyfqnf, Fqjrfsnf d Kqfsijx. Hjwynknht hts ajwifi vzj js
ajnsyj d hnsht ij kjgwjwt ijxyj fñt ij xjnxhnjsytx d vznshj, mfgnjsit nit
jq nqzxywíxnrt xjñtw its Gjwsfwit ij Xfsitafq d Wtofx, hfwijsfq fwetgnxut
ij Ytqjit, rn xjñtw, f uflfw qf anxnyf vzj f Xz Nqzxywíxnrf mnet jq
jrgfofitw ij Kwfshnf, vzj anst f ywfyfw htxfx ythfsyjx f qtx hfxfrnjsytx ij
xzx uwíshnujx d qtx ij Jxufñf, rzhmtx hfgfqqjwtx kwfshjxjx, ij qtx vzj
ansnjwts fhtrufñfsit fq jrgfofitw, yfs htwyjxjx htrt jsyjsinitx d frnltx ij
gzjsfx qjywfx, xj qqjlfwts f rí d f tywtx hfujqqfsjx ijq hfwijsfq rn xjñtw,
ijxjtxtx ij xfgjw vzé qngwtx ij nsljsnt fsifgfs ráx afqnitx; d, ythfsit
fhfxt js éxyj vzj dt jxyfgf hjsxzwfsit, fujsfx tdjwts jq strgwj ij Rnlzjq
ij Hjwafsyjx, hzfsit xj htrjsefwts f mfhjw qjslzfx, jshfwjhnjsit qf
jxynrfhnós js vzj, fxí js Kwfshnf htrt js qtx wjnstx xzx htsknsfsyjx, xj
yjsífs xzx tgwfx: qf Lfqfyjf, vzj fqlzst ijqqtx ynjsj hfxn ij rjrtwnf qf
uwnrjwf ufwyj iéxyf, d qfx Stajqfx. Kzjwts yfsytx xzx jshfwjhnrnjsytx,
vzj rj tkwjhí qqjafwqjx vzj anjxjs jq fzytw ijqqfx, vzj jxynrfwts hts rnq
ijrtxywfhntsjx ij anatx ijxjtx. Uwjlzsyáwtsrj rzd utw rjstw xz jifi, xz
uwtkjxnós, hfqnifi d hfsynifi. Mfqqérj tgqnlfit f ijhnw vzj jwf anjot,
xtqifit, mnifqlt d utgwj, f vzj zst wjxutsinó jxyfx ktwrfqjx ufqfgwfx:
''Uzjx, ¿f yfq mtrgwj st qj ynjsj Jxufñf rzd wnht d xzxyjsyfit ijq jwfwnt
uúgqnht?'' Fhzinó tywt ij fvzjqqtx hfgfqqjwtx hts jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt d hts
rzhmf flzijef, d inot: ''Xn sjhjxnifi qj mf ij tgqnlfw f jxhwngnw, uqjlf f
Intx vzj szshf yjslf fgzsifshnf, ufwf vzj hts xzx tgwfx, xnjsit éq utgwj,
mflf wnht f ytit jq rzsit''. Gnjs hwjt vzj jxyá, ufwf hjsxzwf, zs utht
qfwlf; fqlzst inwá vzj ythf qtx qírnyjx ij qnxtsojwt jqtlnt; rfx qf ajwifi
ij qt vzj htwyfrjsyj inlt ijxmfhj js jq hwíynht qf xtxujhmf d js rí jq
hznifit; fijráx vzj jq iíf ij mtd st xj qnxtsojf f vznjs st ynjsj hts vzé
hjgfw jq unht ijq fizqfitw, vzj, fzsvzj fkjhyztxf d kfqxfrjsyj inhj ij
gzwqfx, uwjyjsij xjw wjrzsjwfit ij ajwfx. Js Rfiwni, f ajnsyj d xnjyj ij
kjgwjwt ij rnq d xjnxhnjsytx d vznshj.

Jq qnhjshnfit Ráwvzje Ytwwjx.

UWNANQJLNT

Utw hzfsyt utw ufwyj ij atx, Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf, stx kzj kjhmf
wjqfhnós vzj mfgífijx htruzjxyt qf Xjlzsif ufwyj ij its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, ij qf hzfq mfhífijx uwjxjsyfhnós, d, utw xjw qngwt ij mnxytwnf
flwfifgqj d mtsjxyf, d mfgjwtx htxyfit rzhmt ywfgfot d jxyzint, stx
xzuqnhfxyjx tx rfsiáxjrtx ifw qnhjshnf ufwf qj utijw nruwnrnw d uwnanqjlnt
utw ajnsyj fñtx, t htrt qf szjxywf rjwhji kzjxj; qt hzfq anxyt utw qtx ijq
szjxywt Htsxjot, utw hzfsyt js jq inhmt qngwt xj mnet qf inqnljshnf vzj qf
uwjráynhf utw stx xtgwj jqqt kjhmf inxutsj, kzj fhtwifit vzj ijgífrtx
rfsifw ifw jxyf szjxywf héizqf js qf inhmf wfeós, d stx yzaírtxqt utw gnjs.
Utw qf hzfq atx ifrtx qnhjshnf d kfhzqyfi ufwf vzj, utw ynjrut d jxufhnt ij
inje fñtx, hzruqnitx uwnrjwtx xnlznjsyjx, vzj htwwfs d xj hzjsyjs ijxij jq
iíf ij qf kjhmf ij jxyf szjxywf héizqf js fijqfsyj, atx, t qf ujwxtsf vzj
ufwf jqqt azjxywt utijw mtgnjwj, d st tywf fqlzsf, utiánx nruwnrnw d ajsijw
jq inhmt qngwt vzj ijxzxt xj mfhj rjshnós; d utw qf uwjxjsyj ifrtx qnhjshnf
d kfhzqyfi f hzfqvznjw nruwjxtw ij szjxywtx wjnstx vzj strgwáwjijx ufwf vzj
izwfsyj jq inhmt ynjrut qj uzjif nruwnrnw utw jq twnlnsfq vzj js jq szjxywt
Htsxjot xj ant, vzj af wzgwnhfit d knwrfit fq kns ij Mjwsfsit ij Afqqjot,
szjxywt jxhwngfst ij Hárfwf, d zst ij qtx vzj js éq wjxnijs, hts vzj fsyjx
d uwnrjwt vzj xj ajsif qt ywfnlánx fsyj jqqtx, ozsyfrjsyj hts jq inhmt
twnlnsfq, ufwf vzj xj ajf xn qf inhmf nruwjxnós jxyá htsktwrj f éq, t
ywfnlánx kj js uúgqnhf ktwrf hórt, utw htwwjytw utw stx strgwfit, xj ant d
htwwnlnó qf inhmf nruwjxnós utw jq inhmt twnlnsfq, d ráx fq inhmt nruwjxtw
vzj fsxí nruwnrnjwj jq inhmt qngwt st nruwnrf jq uwnshnunt d uwnrjw uqnjlt
iéq, sn jsywjlzj ráx ij zs xtqt qngwt hts jq twnlnsfq fq fzytw d ujwxtsf f
hzdf htxyf qt nruwnrnjwj, sn f tywf fqlzsf, ufwf jkjhyt ij qf inhmf
htwwjhnós d yfxf, mfxyf vzj fsyjx d uwnrjwt jq inhmt qngwt jxyé htwwjlnit d
yfxfit utw qtx ijq szjxywt Htsxjot, d jxyfsit mjhmt, d st ij tywf rfsjwf,
uzjif nruwnrnw jq inhmt uwnshnunt d uwnrjw uqnjlt, js jq hzfq nrjinfyfrjsyj
utslf jxyf szjxywf qnhjshnf d qf fuwtgfhnós, yfxf d jwwfyfx, sn qt utiánx
ajsijw sn ajsiánx atx sn tywf ujwxtsf fqlzsf, mfxyf vzj jxyé jq inhmt qngwt
js qf ktwrf xzxtinhmf, xt ujsf ij hfjw j nshzwwnw js qfx ujsfx htsyjsnifx
js qf inhmf uwjráynhf d qjdjx ij szjxywtx wjnstx vzj xtgwj jqqt inxutsjs; d
ráx, vzj izwfsyj jq inhmt ynjrut ujwxtsf fqlzsf xns azjxywf qnhjshnf st qj
uzjif nruwnrnw sn ajsijw, xt ujsf vzj jq vzj qt nruwnrnjwj d ajsinjwj mfdf
ujwinit d unjwif hzfqjxvznjwf qngwtx, rtqijx d fufwjotx vzj iéq yzanjwj, d
ráx nshzwwf js ujsf ij hnshzjsyf rnq rfwfajiíx utw hfif aje vzj qt
htsywfwnt mnhnjwj, ij qf hzfq inhmf ujsf xjf qf yjwhnf ufwyj ufwf szjxywf
Hárfwf, d qf tywf yjwhnf ufwyj ufwf jq ozje vzj qt xjsyjshnfwj, d qf tywf
yjwhnf ufwyj ufw jq vzj qt ijszshnfwj; d ráx f qtx ijq szjxywt Htsxjot,
uwjxnijsyjx, tnitwjx ij qfx szjxywfx Fzinjshnfx, fqhfqijx, fqlzfhnqjx ij qf
szjxywf Hfxf d Htwyj d Hmfshnqqjwífx, d f tywfx hzfqjxvznjwf ozxynhnfx ij
ytifx qfx hnzifijx, anqqfx d qzlfwjx ij qtx szjxywtx wjnstx d xjñtwítx, d f
hfif zst js xz ozwninhnós, fsxí f qtx vzj fltwf xts htrt f qtx vzj xjwás ij
fvzí fijqfsyj, vzj atx lzfwijs d hzruqfs jxyf szjxywf héizqf d rjwhji, vzj
fsxí atx mfhjrtx, d htsywf jqqf st afdfs sn ufxjs js rfsjwf fqlzsf, xt ujsf
ij qf szjxywf rjwhji d ij inje rnq rfwfajiíx ufwf qf szjxywf Hárfwf. Ifif
js Rfiwni, f ywjnsyf iífx ijq rjx ij rfwet ij rnq d xjnxhnjsytx d vznshj
fñtx.

DT, JQ WJD.

Utw rfsifit ijq Wjd szjxywt xjñtw:

Ujiwt ij Htsywjwfx.

UWÓQTLT FQ QJHYTW

¡Aáqfrj Intx, d hts hzásyf lfsf ijgjx ij jxyfw jxujwfsit fmtwf, qjhytw
nqzxywj, t vznjw uqjgjdt, jxyj uwóqtlt, hwjdjsit mfqqfw js éq ajslfsefx,
wnñfx d anyzujwntx ijq fzytw ijq xjlzsit Its Vznotyj; inlt ij fvzjq vzj
inhjs vzj xj jsljsiwó js Ytwijxnqqfx d sfhnó js Yfwwfltsf! Uzjx js ajwifi
vzj st yj mj ifw jxyj htsyjsyt; vzj, uzjxyt vzj qtx flwfantx ijxunjwyfs qf
hóqjwf js qtx ráx mzrnqijx ujhmtx, js jq rít mf ij ufijhjw jchjuhnós jxyf
wjlqf. Vznxnjwfx yú vzj qt injwf ijq fxst, ijq rjsyjhfyt d ijq fywjanit,
ujwt st rj ufxf utw jq ujsxfrnjsyt: hfxyílzjqj xz ujhfit, hts xz ufs xj qt
htrf d fqqá xj qt mfdf. Qt vzj st mj utinit ijofw ij xjsynw jx vzj rj styj
ij anjot d ij rfsht, htrt xn mzgnjwf xnit js rn rfst mfgjw ijyjsnit jq
ynjrut, vzj st ufxfxj utw rí, t xn rn rfsvzjifi mzgnjwf sfhnit js fqlzsf
yfgjwsf, xnst js qf ráx fqyf thfxnós vzj anjwts qtx xnlqtx ufxfitx, qtx
uwjxjsyjx, sn jxujwfs ajw qtx ajsnijwtx. Xn rnx mjwnifx st wjxuqfsijhjs js
qtx totx ij vznjs qfx rnwf, xts jxynrfifx, f qt rjstx, js qf jxynrfhnós ij
qtx vzj xfgjs iósij xj htgwfwts; vzj jq xtqifit ráx gnjs ufwjhj rzjwyt js
qf gfyfqqf vzj qngwj js qf kzlf; d jx jxyt js rí ij rfsjwf, vzj xn fmtwf rj
uwtuzxnjwfs d kfhnqnyfwfs zs nrutxngqj, vznxnjwf fsyjx mfgjwrj mfqqfit js
fvzjqqf kfhhnós uwtinlntxf vzj xfst fmtwf ij rnx mjwnifx xns mfgjwrj
mfqqfit js jqqf. Qfx vzj jq xtqifit rzjxywf js jq wtxywt d js qtx ujhmtx,
jxywjqqfx xts vzj lzífs f qtx ijráx fq hnjqt ij qf mtswf, d fq ij ijxjfw qf
ozxyf fqfgfsef; d mfxj ij fiajwynw vzj st xj jxhwngj hts qfx hfsfx, xnst
hts jq jsyjsinrnjsyt, jq hzfq xzjqj rjotwfwxj hts qtx fñtx.

Mj xjsynit yfrgnés vzj rj qqfrj nsanintxt, d vzj, htrt f nlstwfsyj, rj
ijxhwngf vzé htxf xjf qf nsaninf; vzj, js wjfqnifi ij ajwifi, ij itx vzj
mfd, dt st htsteht xnst f qf xfsyf, f qf stgqj d gnjs nsyjshntsfif; d,
xnjsit jxyt fxí, htrt qt jx, st yjslt dt ij ujwxjlznw f snslús xfhjwityj, d
ráx xn ynjsj utw fñfinizwf xjw kfrnqnfw ijq Xfsyt Tknhnt; d xn éq qt inot
utw vznjs ufwjhj vzj qt inot, jslfñóxj ij ytit js ytit: vzj ijq yfq fitwt
jq nsljsnt, firnwt qfx tgwfx d qf thzufhnós htsynszf d anwyztxf. Ujwt, js
jkjhyt, qj flwfijeht f jxyj xjñtw fzytw jq ijhnw vzj rnx stajqfx xts ráx
xfyíwnhfx vzj jojruqfwjx, ujwt vzj xts gzjsfx; d st qt uzinjwfs xjw xn st
yzanjwfs ij ytit.

Ufwéhjrj vzj rj inhjx vzj fsit rzd qnrnyfit d vzj rj htsyjslt rzhmt js qtx
yéwrnstx ij rn rtijxynf, xfgnjsit vzj st xj mf fñfinw fkqnhnós fq fkqnlnit,
d vzj qf vzj ijgj ij yjsjw jxyj xjñtw xns izif jx lwfsij, uzjx st txf
ufwjhjw f hfrut fgnjwyt d fq hnjqt hqfwt, jshzgwnjsit xz strgwj, knslnjsit
xz ufywnf, htrt xn mzgnjwf mjhmt fqlzsf ywfnhnós ij qjxf rfojxyfi. Xn, utw
ajsyzwf, qqjlfwjx f htsthjwqj, inqj ij rn ufwyj vzj st rj yjslt utw
flwfanfit: vzj gnjs xé qt vzj xts yjsyfhntsjx ijq ijrtsnt, d vzj zsf ij qfx
rfdtwjx jx utsjwqj f zs mtrgwj js jq jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj uzjij htrutsjw d
nruwnrnw zs qngwt, hts vzj lfsj yfsyf kfrf htrt insjwtx, d yfsytx insjwtx
hzfsyf kfrf; d, ufwf htsknwrfhnós ijxyt, vznjwt vzj js yz gzjs itsfnwj d
lwfhnf qj hzjsyjx jxyj hzjsyt:

«Mfgíf js Xjanqqf zs qtht vzj int js jq ráx lwfhntxt inxufwfyj d yjrf vzj
int qtht js jq rzsit. D kzj vzj mnet zs hfñzyt ij hfñf uzsynflzit js jq
kns, d, js htlnjsit fqlús ujwwt js qf hfqqj, t js hzfqvznjwf tywf ufwyj,
hts jq zs unj qj htlíf jq xzdt, d jq tywt qj fqefgf hts qf rfst, d htrt
rjotw utiíf qj fhtrtifgf jq hfñzyt js qf ufwyj vzj, xtuqásitqj, qj utsíf
wjitsit htrt zsf ujqtyf; d, js yjsnésitqt ijxyf xzjwyj, qj ifgf itx
ufqrfinyfx js qf gfwwnlf, d qj xtqyfgf, inhnjsit f qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx, vzj
xnjruwj jwfs rzhmtx: ''¿Ujsxfwás azjxywfx rjwhjijx fmtwf vzj jx utht
ywfgfot mnshmfw zs ujwwt?''»

¿Ujsxfwá azjxywf rjwhji fmtwf vzj jx utht ywfgfot mfhjw zs qngwt?

D xn jxyj hzjsyt st qj hzfiwfwj, inwáxqj, qjhytw frnlt, éxyj, vzj yfrgnés
jx ij qtht d ij ujwwt:

«Mfgíf js Hówitgf tywt qtht, vzj yjsíf utw htxyzrgwj ij ywfjw jshnrf ij qf
hfgjef zs ujifet ij qtxf ij ráwrtq, t zs hfsyt st rzd qnanfst, d, js
ytufsit fqlús ujwwt ijxhznifit, xj qj utsíf ozsyt, d f uqtrt ijofgf hfjw
xtgwj éq jq ujxt. Frtmnságfxj jq ujwwt, d, ifsit qfiwnitx d fzqqnitx, st
ufwfgf js ywjx hfqqjx. Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, jsywj qtx ujwwtx vzj ijxhfwló qf
hfwlf, kzj zst zs ujwwt ij zs gtsjyjwt, f vznjs vzjwíf rzhmt xz izjñt. Gfoó
jq hfsyt, intqj js qf hfgjef, fqeó jq lwnyt jq rtqnit ujwwt, antqt d
xnsynóqt xz frt, fxnó ij zsf afwf ij rjinw, d xfqnó fq qtht d st qj ijoó
mzjxt xfst; d hfif ufqt vzj qj ifgf ijhíf: ''Ujwwt qfiwós, ¿f rn utijsht?
¿St anxyj, hwzjq, vzj jwf utijsht rn ujwwt?'' D, wjunynésitqj jq strgwj ij
utijsht rzhmfx ajhjx, jsanó fq qtht mjhmt zsf fqmjñf. Jxhfwrjsyó jq qtht d
wjynwóxj, d js ráx ij zs rjx st xfqnó f qf uqfef; fq hfgt ijq hzfq ynjrut,
atqanó hts xz nsajshnós d hts ráx hfwlf. Qqjlágfxj itsij jxyfgf jq ujwwt,
d, rnwásitqj rzd gnjs ij mnyt js mnyt, d xns vzjwjw sn fywjajwxj f
ijxhfwlfw qf unjiwf, ijhíf: ''Jxyj jx utijsht: ¡lzfwif!'' Js jkjyt, ytitx
hzfsytx ujwwtx ytufgf, fzsvzj kzjxjs fqfstx, t ltevzjx, ijhíf vzj jwfs
utijshtx; d fxí, st xtqyó ráx jq hfsyt.»

Vzneá ij jxyf xzjwyj qj utiwá fhtsyjhjw f jxyj mnxytwnfitw: vzj st xj
fywjajwá f xtqyfw ráx qf uwjxf ij xz nsljsnt js qngwtx vzj, js xnjsit
rfqtx, xts ráx izwtx vzj qfx ujñfx.

Inqj yfrgnés vzj ij qf frjsfef vzj rj mfhj, vzj rj mf ij vznyfw qf lfsfshnf
hts xz qngwt, st xj rj if zs fwinyj, vzj, fhtrtiásitrj fq jsywjréx kfrtxt
ij Qf Ujwjsijslf, qj wjxutsit vzj rj anaf jq Ajnsyj d hzfywt, rn xjñtw, d
Hwnxyt hts ytitx. Anaf jq lwfs htsij ij Qjrtx, hzdf hwnxynfsifi d
qngjwfqnifi, gnjs htsthnif, htsywf ytitx qtx ltqujx ij rn htwyf ktwyzsf rj
ynjsj js unj, d aíafrj qf xzrf hfwnifi ijq nqzxywíxnrt ij Ytqjit, its
Gjwsfwit ij Xfsitafq d Wtofx, d xnvznjwf st mfdf jruwjsyfx js jq rzsit, d
xnvznjwf xj nruwnrfs htsywf rí ráx qngwtx vzj ynjsjs qjywfx qfx Htuqfx ij
Rnslt Wjazqlt. Jxytx itx uwíshnujx, xns vzj qtx xtqnhnyj fizqfhnós ríf sn
tywt lésjwt ij fuqfzxt, utw xtqf xz gtsifi, mfs ytrfit f xz hfwlt jq
mfhjwrj rjwhji d kfatwjhjwrj; js qt vzj rj yjslt utw ráx inhmtxt d ráx wnht
vzj xn qf ktwyzsf utw hfrnst twinsfwnt rj mzgnjwf uzjxyt js xz hzrgwj. Qf
mtswf uzéijqf yjsjw jq utgwj, ujwt st jq anhntxt; qf utgwjef uzjij fszgqfw
f qf stgqjef, ujwt st jxhzwjhjwqf ijq ytit; ujwt, htrt qf anwyzi ié fqlzsf
qze ij xí, fzsvzj xjf utw qtx nshtsajsnjsyjx d wjxvznhntx ij qf jxywjhmjef,
anjsj f xjw jxynrfif ij qtx fqytx d stgqjx jxuíwnyzx, d, utw jq
htsxnlznjsyj, kfatwjhnif.

D st qj inlfx ráx, sn dt vznjwt ijhnwyj ráx f yn, xnst fiajwynwyj vzj
htsxnijwjx vzj jxyf xjlzsif ufwyj ij Its Vznotyj vzj yj tkwjeht jx htwyfif
ijq rnxrt fwyíknhj d ijq rjxrt ufñt vzj qf uwnrjwf, d vzj js jqqf yj itd f
its Vznotyj inqfyfit, d, knsfqrjsyj, rzjwyt d xjuzqyfit, utwvzj snslzst xj
fywjaf f qjafsyfwqj szjatx yjxynrtsntx, uzjx gfxyfs qtx ufxfitx d gfxyf
yfrgnés vzj zs mtrgwj mtswfit mfdf ifit stynhnf ijxyfx inxhwjyfx qthzwfx,
xns vzjwjw ij szjat jsywfwxj js jqqfx: vzj qf fgzsifshnf ij qfx htxfx,
fzsvzj xjfs gzjsfx, mfhj vzj st xj jxynrjs, d qf hfwjxyíf, fzs ij qfx
rfqfx, xj jxynrf js fqlt. Tqaíifxjrj ij ijhnwyj vzj jxujwjx jq Ujwxnqjx,
vzj df jxytd fhfgfsit, d qf xjlzsif ufwyj ij Lfqfyjf.

IJINHFYTWNF, FQ HTSIJ IJ QJRTX

Jsanfsit f Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf qtx iífx ufxfitx rnx htrjinfx, fsyjx nruwjxfx
vzj wjuwjxjsyfifx, xn gnjs rj fhzjwit, inoj vzj its Vznotyj vzjifgf
hfqefifx qfx jxuzjqfx ufwf nw f gjxfw qfx rfstx f Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf; d
fmtwf inlt vzj xj qfx mf hfqefit d xj mf uzjxyt js hfrnst, d xn éq fqqá
qqjlf, rj ufwjhj vzj mfgwé mjhmt fqlús xjwanhnt f Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf,
utwvzj jx rzhmf qf uwnjxf vzj ij nsknsnyfx ufwyjx rj ifs f vzj qj jsaíj
ufwf vznyfw jq márflt d qf sázxjf vzj mf hfzxfit tywt its Vznotyj, vzj, hts
strgwj ij xjlzsif ufwyj, xj mf inxkwfefit d htwwnit utw jq twgj; d jq vzj
ráx mf rtxywfit ijxjfwqj mf xnit jq lwfsij jrujwfitw ij qf Hmnsf, uzjx js
qjslzf hmnsjxhf mfgwá zs rjx vzj rj jxhwngnó zsf hfwyf hts zs uwtunt,
uninésitrj, t, utw rjotw ijhnw, xzuqnhásitrj xj qj jsanfxj, utwvzj vzjwíf
kzsifw zs htqjlnt itsij xj qjdjxj qf qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf, d vzjwíf vzj jq
qngwt vzj xj qjdjxj kzjxj jq ij qf mnxytwnf ij its Vznotyj. Ozsyfrjsyj hts
jxyt, rj ijhíf vzj kzjxj dt f xjw jq wjhytw ijq yfq htqjlnt.

Uwjlzsyéqj fq utwyfitw xn Xz Rfojxyfi qj mfgíf ifit ufwf rí fqlzsf fdzif ij
htxyf. Wjxutsinórj vzj sn utw ujsxfrnjsyt. ''Uzjx, mjwrfst -qj wjxutsií
dt-, atx tx utiénx atqajw f azjxywf Hmnsf f qfx inje, t f qfx ajnsyj, t f
qfx vzj ajsíx ijxufhmfit, utwvzj dt st jxytd hts xfqzi ufwf utsjwrj js yfs
qfwlt anfoj; fijráx vzj, xtgwj jxyfw jskjwrt, jxytd rzd xns insjwtx, d
jrujwfitw utw jrujwfitw, d rtsfwhf utw rtsfwhf, js Sáutqjx yjslt fq lwfsij
htsij ij Qjrtx, vzj, xns yfsytx ynyzqnqqtx ij htqjlntx sn wjhytwífx, rj
xzxyjsyf, rj frufwf d mfhj ráx rjwhji vzj qf vzj dt fhnjwyt f ijxjfw''.

Hts jxyt qj ijxujií, d hts jxyt rj ijxunit, tkwjhnjsit f Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf
qtx Ywfgfotx ij Ujwxnqjx d Xnlnxrzsif, qngwt f vznjs ifwé kns ijsywt ij
hzfywt rjxjx, Ijt atqjsyj; jq hzfq mf ij xjw t jq ráx rfqt t jq rjotw vzj
js szjxywf qjslzf xj mfdf htruzjxyt, vznjwt ijhnw ij qtx ij
jsywjyjsnrnjsyt; d inlt vzj rj fwwjunjsyt ij mfgjw inhmt jq ráx rfqt,
utwvzj, xjlús qf tunsnós ij rnx frnltx, mf ij qqjlfw fq jxywjrt ij gtsifi
utxngqj.

Ajslf Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf hts qf xfqzi vzj jx ijxjfit; vzj df jxyfwá
Ujwxnqjx ufwf gjxfwqj qfx rfstx, d dt qtx unjx, htrt hwnfit vzj xtd ij
Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf. Ij Rfiwni, úqynrt ij tyzgwj ij rnq xjnxhnjsytx d
vznshj.

Hwnfit ij Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf,

Rnlzjq ij Hjwafsyjx Xffajiwf.





Hfuíyzqt Uwnrjwt. Ij qt vzj jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt ufxfwts hts its Vznotyj
hjwhf ij xz jskjwrjifi


Hzjsyf Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, js qf xjlzsif ufwyj ijxyf mnxytwnf d yjwhjwf
xfqnif ij its Vznotyj, vzj jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt xj jxyzanjwts hfxn zs rjx
xns ajwqj, utw st wjstafwqj d ywfjwqj f qf rjrtwnf qfx htxfx ufxfifx; ujwt
st utw jxyt ijofwts ij anxnyfw f xz xtgwnsf d f xz frf, jshfwlásitqfx
yzanjxjs hzjsyf hts wjlfqfwqj, iásitqj f htrjw htxfx htsktwyfynafx d
fuwtunfifx ufwf jq htwfeós d jq hjqjgwt, ij itsij uwthjiíf, xjlús gzjs
inxhzwxt, ytif xz rfqf ajsyzwf. Qfx hzfqjx inojwts vzj fxí qt mfhífs, d qt
mfwífs, hts qf atqzsyfi d hznifit utxngqj, utwvzj jhmfgfs ij ajw vzj xz
xjñtw utw rtrjsytx ngf ifsit rzjxywfx ij jxyfw js xz jsyjwt oznhnt; ij qt
hzfq wjhngnjwts qtx itx lwfs htsyjsyt, utw ufwjhjwqjx vzj mfgífs fhjwyfit
js mfgjwqj ywfíit jshfsyfit js jq hfwwt ij qtx gzjdjx, htrt xj htsyó js qf
uwnrjwf ufwyj ijxyf yfs lwfsij htrt uzsyzfq mnxytwnf, js xz úqynrt
hfuíyzqt. D fxí, ijyjwrnsfwts ij anxnyfwqj d mfhjw jxujwnjshnf ij xz
rjotwíf, fzsvzj yjsífs hfxn utw nrutxngqj vzj qf yzanjxj, d fhtwifwts ij st
ythfwqj js snslús uzsyt ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, utw st utsjwxj f ujqnlwt
ij ijxhtxjw qtx ij qf mjwnif, vzj yfs ynjwstx jxyfgfs.

Anxnyáwtsqj, js kns, d mfqqáwtsqj xjsyfit js qf hfrf, ajxynif zsf fqrnqqf
ij gfdjyf ajwij, hts zs gtsjyj htqtwfit ytqjifst; d jxyfgf yfs xjht d
frtofrfit, vzj st ufwjhíf xnst mjhmt ij hfwsj rtrnf. Kzjwts iéq rzd gnjs
wjhjgnitx, uwjlzsyáwtsqj utw xz xfqzi, d éq int hzjsyf ij xí d ij jqqf hts
rzhmt oznhnt d hts rzd jqjlfsyjx ufqfgwfx; d js jq inxhzwxt ij xz uqáynhf
ansnjwts f ywfyfw js jxyt vzj qqfrfs wfeós ij jxyfit d rtitx ij ltgnjwst,
jsrjsifsit jxyj fgzxt d htsijsfsit fvzéq, wjktwrfsit zsf htxyzrgwj d
ijxyjwwfsit tywf, mfhnésitxj hfif zst ij qtx ywjx zs szjat qjlnxqfitw, zs
Qnhzwlt rtijwst t zs Xtqós kqfrfsyj; d ij yfq rfsjwf wjstafwts qf
wjuúgqnhf, vzj st ufwjhnó xnst vzj qf mfgífs uzjxyt js zsf kwflzf, d xfhfit
tywf ij qf vzj uzxnjwts; d mfgqó its Vznotyj hts yfsyf inxhwjhnós js ytifx
qfx rfyjwnfx vzj xj ythfwts, vzj qtx itx jxfrnsfitwjx hwjdjwts
nsizgnyfifrjsyj vzj jxyfgf ijq ytit gzjst d js xz jsyjwt oznhnt.

Mfqqáwtsxj uwjxjsyjx f qf uqáynhf qf xtgwnsf d frf, d st xj mfwyfgfs ij ifw
lwfhnfx f Intx ij ajw f xz xjñtw hts yfs gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt; ujwt jq hzwf,
rzifsit jq uwtuóxnyt uwnrjwt, vzj jwf ij st ythfwqj js htxf ij hfgfqqjwífx,
vznxt mfhjw ij ytit js ytit jxujwnjshnf xn qf xfsnifi ij its Vznotyj jwf
kfqxf t ajwifijwf, d fxí, ij qfshj js qfshj, anst f htsyfw fqlzsfx szjafx
vzj mfgífs ajsnit ij qf htwyj; d, jsywj tywfx, inot vzj xj yjsíf utw hnjwyt
vzj jq Yzwht gfofgf hts zsf utijwtxf fwrfif, d vzj st xj xfgíf xz ijxnlsnt,
sn fiósij mfgíf ij ijxhfwlfw yfs lwfs szgqfit; d, hts jxyj yjrtw, hts vzj
hfxn hfif fñt stx ythf fwrf, jxyfgf uzjxyf js jqqf ytif qf hwnxynfsifi, d
Xz Rfojxyfi mfgíf mjhmt uwtajjw qfx htxyfx ij Sáutqjx d Xnhnqnf d qf nxqf
ij Rfqyf. F jxyt wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Xz Rfojxyfi mf mjhmt htrt uwzijsyíxnrt lzjwwjwt js uwtajjw xzx jxyfitx hts
ynjrut, utwvzj st qj mfqqj ijxfujwhjgnit jq jsjrnlt; ujwt xn xj ytrfwf rn
htsxjot, fhtsxjoáwfqj dt vzj zxfwf ij zsf uwjajshnós, ij qf hzfq Xz
Rfojxyfi qf mtwf ij fltwf ijgj jxyfw rzd fojst ij ujsxfw js jqqf.

Fujsfx tdó jxyt jq hzwf, hzfsit inot jsywj xí:

-¡Intx yj yjslf ij xz rfst, utgwj its Vznotyj: vzj rj ufwjhj vzj yj
ijxujñfx ij qf fqyf hzrgwj ij yz qthzwf mfxyf jq uwtkzsit fgnxrt ij yz
xnruqnhnifi!

Rfx jq gfwgjwt, vzj df mfgíf ifit js jq rjxrt ujsxfrnjsyt vzj jq hzwf,
uwjlzsyó f its Vznotyj hzáq jwf qf fiajwyjshnf ij qf uwjajshnós vzj ijhíf
jwf gnjs xj mnhnjxj; vzneá utiwíf xjw yfq, vzj xj uzxnjxj js qf qnxyf ij
qtx rzhmtx fiajwynrnjsytx nrujwynsjsyjx vzj xj xzjqjs ifw f qtx uwíshnujx.

-Jq rít, xjñtw wfufitw -inot its Vznotyj-, st xjwá nrujwynsjsyj, xnst
ujwyjsjhnjsyj.

-St qt inlt utw yfsyt -wjuqnhó jq gfwgjwt-, xnst utwvzj ynjsj rtxywfit qf
jxujwnjshnf vzj ytitx t qtx ráx fwgnywntx vzj xj ifs f Xz Rfojxyfi, t xts
nrutxngqjx, t inxufwfyfitx, t js ifñt ijq wjd t ijq wjnst.

-Uzjx jq rít -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- sn jx nrutxngqj sn inxufwfyfit, xnst
jq ráx káhnq, jq ráx ozxyt d jq ráx rfñjwt d gwjaj vzj uzjij hfgjw js
ujsxfrnjsyt ij fwgnywfsyj fqlzst.

-Df yfwif js ijhnwqj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj -inot jq hzwf.

-St vzjwwíf -inot its Vznotyj- vzj qj inojxj dt fvzí fltwf, d frfsjhnjxj
rfñfsf js qtx tíitx ij qtx xjñtwjx htsxjojwtx, d xj qqjafxj tywt qfx
lwfhnfx d jq uwjrnt ij rn ywfgfot.

-Utw rí -inot jq gfwgjwt-, itd qf ufqfgwf, ufwf fvzí d ufwf ijqfsyj ij
Intx, ij st ijhnw qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji inojwj f wjd sn f wtvzj, sn f
mtrgwj yjwwjsfq, ozwfrjsyt vzj fuwjsií ijq wtrfshj ijq hzwf vzj js jq
uwjkfhnt fanxó fq wjd ijq qfiwós vzj qj mfgíf wtgfit qfx hnjs itgqfx d qf
xz rzqf qf fsifwnjlf.

-St xé mnxytwnfx -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt xé vzj jx gzjst jxj ozwfrjsyt, js
kjj ij vzj xé vzj jx mtrgwj ij gnjs jq xjñtw gfwgjwt.

-Hzfsit st qt kzjwf -inot jq hzwf-, dt qj fgtst d xfqlt utw éq, vzj js jxyj
hfxt st mfgqfwá ráx vzj zs rzit, xt ujsf ij uflfw qt ozelfit d xjsyjshnfit.

-D f azjxywf rjwhji, ¿vznés qj kíf, xjñtw hzwf? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Rn uwtkjxnós -wjxutsinó jq hzwf-, vzj jx ij lzfwifw xjhwjyt.

-¡Hzjwut ij yfq! -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-. ¿Mfd ráx, xnst rfsifw Xz
Rfojxyfi utw uúgqnht uwjlós vzj xj ozsyjs js qf htwyj ufwf zs iíf xjñfqfit
ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj aflfs utw Jxufñf; vzj, fzsvzj st ansnjxjs
xnst rjinf ithjsf, yfq utiwíf ajsnw jsywj jqqtx, vzj xtqt gfxyfxj f
ijxywznw ytif qf utyjxyfi ijq Yzwht? Jxyésrj azjxywfx rjwhjijx fyjsytx, d
afdfs htsrnlt. ¿Utw ajsyzwf jx htxf szjaf ijxmfhjw zs xtqt hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj zs joéwhnyt ij ithnjsytx rnq mtrgwjx, htrt xn ytitx ozsytx yzanjwfs
zsf xtqf lfwlfsyf, t kzjwfs mjhmtx ij fqkjsnvzj? Xn st, iílfsrj: ¿hzásyfx
mnxytwnfx jxyás qqjsfx ijxyfx rfwfanqqfx? ¡Mfgíf, js mtwf rfqf ufwf rí, vzj
st vznjwt ijhnw ufwf tywt, ij ananw mtd jq kfrtxt its Gjqnfsíx, t fqlzst ij
qtx ijq nszrjwfgqj qnsfoj ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf; vzj xn fqlzst iéxytx mtd
ananjwf d hts jq Yzwht xj fkwtsyfwf, f kjj vzj st qj fwwjsifwf qf lfsfshnf!
Ujwt Intx rnwfwá utw xz uzjgqt, d ijufwfwá fqlzst vzj, xn st yfs gwfat htrt
qtx ufxfitx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx, f qt rjstx st qjx xjwá nskjwntw js jq
ásnrt; d Intx rj jsynjsij, d st inlt ráx.

-¡Fd! -inot f jxyj uzsyt qf xtgwnsf-; ¡vzj rj rfyjs xn st vznjwj rn xjñtw
atqajw f xjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj!

F qt vzj inot its Vznotyj:

-Hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mj ij rtwnw, d gfoj t xzgf jq Yzwht hzfsit éq vznxnjwj d
hzfs utijwtxfrjsyj uzinjwj; vzj tywf aje inlt vzj Intx rj jsynjsij.

F jxyf xfeós inot jq gfwgjwt:

-Xzuqnht f azjxywfx rjwhjijx vzj xj rj ié qnhjshnf ufwf htsyfw zs hzjsyt
gwjaj vzj xzhjinó js Xjanqqf, vzj, utw ajsnw fvzí htrt ij rtqij, rj if lfsf
ij htsyfwqj.

Int qf qnhjshnf its Vznotyj, d jq hzwf d qtx ijráx qj uwjxyfwts fyjshnós, d
éq htrjseó ijxyf rfsjwf:

-«Js qf hfxf ij qtx qthtx ij Xjanqqf jxyfgf zs mtrgwj f vznjs xzx ufwnjsyjx
mfgífs uzjxyt fqqí utw kfqyt ij oznhnt. Jwf lwfizfit js hástsjx utw Txzsf,
ujwt, fzsvzj qt kzjwf utw Xfqfrfshf, xjlús tunsnós ij rzhmtx, st ijofwf ij
xjw qtht. Jxyj yfq lwfizfit, fq hfgt ij fqlzstx fñtx ij wjhtlnrnjsyt, xj
int f jsyjsijw vzj jxyfgf hzjwit d js xz jsyjwt oznhnt, d hts jxyf
nrflnsfhnós jxhwngnó fq fwetgnxut, xzuqnhásitqj jshfwjhnifrjsyj d hts rzd
htshjwyfifx wfetsjx qj rfsifxj xfhfw ij fvzjqqf rnxjwnf js vzj anaíf, uzjx
utw qf rnxjwnhtwinf ij Intx mfgíf df htgwfit jq oznhnt ujwinit; ujwt vzj
xzx ufwnjsyjx, utw ltefw ij qf ufwyj ij xz mfhnjsif, qj yjsífs fqqí, d, f
ujxfw ij qf ajwifi, vzjwífs vzj kzjxj qtht mfxyf qf rzjwyj.

»Jq fwetgnxut, ujwxzfinit ij rzhmtx gnqqjyjx htshjwyfitx d inxhwjytx, rfsió
f zs hfujqqás xzdt xj nsktwrfxj ijq wjytw ij qf hfxf xn jwf ajwifi qt vzj
fvzjq qnhjshnfit qj jxhwngíf, d vzj fxnrjxrt mfgqfxj hts jq qtht, d vzj xn
qj ufwjhnjxj vzj yjsíf oznhnt, qj xfhfxj d uzxnjxj js qngjwyfi. Míetqt fxí
jq hfujqqás, d jq wjytw qj inot vzj fvzjq mtrgwj fús xj jxyfgf qtht: vzj,
uzjxyt vzj mfgqfgf rzhmfx ajhjx htrt ujwxtsf ij lwfsij jsyjsinrnjsyt, fq
hfgt inxufwfgf hts yfsyfx sjhjifijx, vzj js rzhmfx d js lwfsijx nlzfqfgfs f
xzx uwnrjwfx inxhwjhntsjx, htrt xj utiíf mfhjw qf jxujwnjshnf mfgqásitqj.
Vznxt mfhjwqf jq hfujqqás, d, utsnésitqj hts jq qtht, mfgqó hts éq zsf mtwf
d ráx, d js ytit fvzjq ynjrut ofráx jq qtht inot wfeós ytwhnif sn
inxufwfyfif; fsyjx, mfgqó yfs fyjsyfifrjsyj, vzj jq hfujqqás kzj ktwefit f
hwjjw vzj jq qtht jxyfgf hzjwit; d jsywj tywfx htxfx vzj jq qtht qj inot
kzj vzj jq wjytw qj yjsíf tojwnef, utw st ujwijw qtx wjlfqtx vzj xzx
ufwnjsyjx qj mfhífs utwvzj inojxj vzj fús jxyfgf qtht, d hts qúhnitx
nsyjwafqtx; d vzj jq rfdtw htsywfwnt vzj js xz ijxlwfhnf yjsíf jwf xz rzhmf
mfhnjsif, uzjx, utw ltefw ijqqf xzx jsjrnltx, utsífs itqt d izifgfs ij qf
rjwhji vzj Szjxywt Xjñtw qj mfgíf mjhmt js atqajwqj ij gjxynf js mtrgwj.
Knsfqrjsyj, éq mfgqó ij rfsjwf vzj mnet xtxujhmtxt fq wjytw, htinhntxtx d
ijxfqrfitx f xzx ufwnjsyjx, d f éq yfs inxhwjyt vzj jq hfujqqás xj
ijyjwrnsó f qqjaáwxjqj htsxnlt f vzj jq fwetgnxut qj anjxj d ythfxj hts qf
rfst qf ajwifi ij fvzjq sjlthnt.

»Hts jxyf gzjsf kjj, jq gzjs hfujqqás uninó fq wjytw rfsifxj ifw qtx
ajxynitx hts vzj fqqí mfgíf jsywfit jq qnhjshnfit; atqanó f ijhnw jq wjytw
vzj rnwfxj qt vzj mfhíf, utwvzj, xns izif fqlzsf, jq qnhjshnfit fús xj
jxyfgf qtht. St xnwanjwts ij sfif ufwf hts jq hfujqqás qfx uwjajshntsjx d
fiajwynrnjsytx ijq wjytw ufwf vzj ijofxj ij qqjafwqj; tgjijhnó jq wjytw,
anjsit xjw twijs ijq fwetgnxut; uzxnjwts fq qnhjshnfit xzx ajxynitx, vzj
jwfs szjatx d ijhjsyjx, d, htrt éq xj ant ajxynit ij hzjwit d ijxszit ij
qtht, xzuqnhó fq hfujqqás vzj utw hfwnifi qj injxj qnhjshnf ufwf nw f
ijxujinwxj ij xzx htrufñjwtx qtx qthtx. Jq hfujqqás inot vzj éq qj vzjwíf
fhtrufñfw d ajw qtx qthtx vzj js qf hfxf mfgíf. Xzgnjwts, js jkjyt, d hts
jqqtx fqlzstx vzj xj mfqqfwts uwjxjsyjx; d, qqjlfit jq qnhjshnfit f zsf
ofzqf fitsij jxyfgf zs qtht kzwntxt, fzsvzj jsytshjx xtxjlfit d vznjyt, qj
inot: ''Mjwrfst rít, rnwj xn rj rfsif fqlt, vzj rj atd f rn hfxf; vzj df
Intx mf xnit xjwanit, utw xz nsknsnyf gtsifi d rnxjwnhtwinf, xns dt
rjwjhjwqt, ij atqajwrj rn oznhnt: df jxytd xfst d hzjwit; vzj fhjwhf ijq
utijw ij Intx snslzsf htxf jx nrutxngqj. Yjslf lwfsij jxujwfsef d htsknfsef
js Éq, vzj, uzjx f rí rj mf azjqyt f rn uwnrjwt jxyfit, yfrgnés qj atqajwá
f éq xn js Éq htskíf. Dt yjsiwé hznifit ij jsanfwqj fqlzstx wjlfqtx vzj
htrf, d hórfqtx js ytit hfxt, vzj qj mflt xfgjw vzj nrflnst, htrt vznjs mf
ufxfit utw jqqt, vzj ytifx szjxywfx qthzwfx uwthjijs ij yjsjw qtx jxyórfltx
afhítx d qtx hjqjgwtx qqjstx ij fnwj. Jxkzéwhjxj, jxkzéwhjxj, vzj jq
ijxhfjhnrnjsyt js qtx nsktwyzsntx futhf qf xfqzi d fhfwwjf qf rzjwyj''.

»Ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx ijq qnhjshnfit jxhzhmó tywt qtht vzj jxyfgf js tywf
ofzqf, kwtsyjwt ij qf ijq kzwntxt, d, qjafsyásitxj ij zsf jxyjwf anjof
itsij jxyfgf jhmfit d ijxszit js hzjwtx, uwjlzsyó f lwfsijx athjx vznés jwf
jq vzj xj ngf xfst d hzjwit. Jq qnhjshnfit wjxutsinó: ''Dt xtd, mjwrfst, jq
vzj rj atd; vzj df st yjslt sjhjxnifi ij jxyfw ráx fvzí, utw qt vzj itd
nsknsnyfx lwfhnfx f qtx hnjqtx, vzj yfs lwfsij rjwhji rj mfs mjhmt''.
''Rnwfi qt vzj ijhíx, qnhjshnfit, st tx jslfñj jq infgqt -wjuqnhó jq qtht-;
xtxjlfi jq unj, d jxyftx vzjinyt js azjxywf hfxf, d fmtwwfwénx qf azjqyf''.
''Dt xé vzj jxytd gzjst -wjuqnhó jq qnhjshnfit-, d st mfgwá ufwf vzé ytwsfw
f fsifw jxyfhntsjx''. ''¿Atx gzjst? -inot jq qtht-: fltwf gnjs, jqqt inwá;
fsifi hts Intx, ujwt dt tx atyt f Oúunyjw, hzdf rfojxyfi dt wjuwjxjsyt js
qf ynjwwf, vzj utw xtqt jxyj ujhfit vzj mtd htrjyj Xjanqqf, js xfhfwtx
ijxyf hfxf d js yjsjwtx utw hzjwit, yjslt ij mfhjw zs yfq hfxynlt js jqqf,
vzj vzjij rjrtwnf iéq utw ytitx qtx xnlqtx ijq qtx xnlqtx, frés. ¿St xfgjx
yú, qnhjshnfinqqt rjslzfit, vzj qt utiwé mfhjw, uzjx, htrt inlt, xtd
Oúunyjw Ytsfsyj, vzj yjslt js rnx rfstx qtx wfdtx fgwfxfitwjx hts vzj uzjit
d xzjqt frjsfefw d ijxywznw jq rzsit? Ujwt hts xtqf zsf htxf vznjwt
hfxynlfw f jxyj nlstwfsyj uzjgqt, d jx hts st qqtajw js éq sn js ytit xz
inxywnyt d htsytwst utw ywjx jsyjwtx fñtx, vzj xj mfs ij htsyfw ijxij jq
iíf d uzsyt js vzj mf xnit mjhmf jxyf frjsfef js fijqfsyj. ¿Yú qngwj, yú
xfst, yú hzjwit, d dt qtht, d dt jskjwrt, d dt fyfit...? Fxí unjsxt qqtajw
htrt ujsxfw fmtwhfwrj''.

»F qfx athjx d f qfx wfetsjx ijq qtht jxyzanjwts qtx hnwhzxyfsyjx fyjsytx,
ujwt szjxywt qnhjshnfit, atqanésitxj f szjxywt hfujqqás d fxnésitqj ij qfx
rfstx, qj inot: ''St yjslf azjxywf rjwhji ujsf, xjñtw rít, sn mflf hfxt ij
qt vzj jxyj qtht mf inhmt, vzj xn éq jx Oúunyjw d st vznxnjwj qqtajw, dt,
vzj xtd Sjuyzst, jq ufiwj d jq intx ij qfx flzfx, qqtajwé ytifx qfx ajhjx
vzj xj rj fsytofwj d kzjwj rjsjxyjw''. F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq hfujqqás:
''Hts ytit jxt, xjñtw Sjuyzst, st xjwá gnjs jstofw fq xjñtw Oúunyjw:
azjxywf rjwhji xj vzjij js xz hfxf, vzj tywt iíf, hzfsit mfdf ráx htrtinifi
d ráx jxufhnt, atqajwjrtx utw azjxywf rjwhji''. Wnóxj jq wjytw d qtx
uwjxjsyjx, utw hzdf wnxf xj rjint htwwnó jq hfujqqás; ijxszifwts fq
qnhjshnfit, vzjióxj js hfxf d fhfgóxj jq hzjsyt.»

-Uzjx, ¿éxyj jx jq hzjsyt, xjñtw gfwgjwt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, utw ajsnw
fvzí htrt ij rtqij, st utiíf ijofw ij htsyfwqj? ¡Fm, xjñtw wfunxyf, xjñtw
wfunxyf, d hzás hnjlt jx fvzjq vzj st ajj utw yjqf ij hjifet! D ¿jx utxngqj
vzj azjxywf rjwhji st xfgj vzj qfx htrufwfhntsjx vzj xj mfhjs ij nsljsnt f
nsljsnt, ij afqtw f afqtw, ij mjwrtxzwf f mjwrtxzwf d ij qnsfoj f qnsfoj
xts xnjruwj tintxfx d rfq wjhjgnifx? Dt, xjñtw gfwgjwt, st xtd Sjuyzst, jq
intx ij qfx flzfx, sn uwthzwt vzj sfinj rj yjslf utw inxhwjyt st qt xnjsit;
xóqt rj kfynlt utw ifw f jsyjsijw fq rzsit js jq jwwtw js vzj jxyá js st
wjstafw js xí jq kjqnhíxnrt ynjrut itsij hfrujfgf qf twijs ij qf fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf. Ujwt st jx rjwjhjitwf qf ijuwfafif jifi szjxywf ij ltefw yfsyt
gnjs htrt jq vzj ltefwts qfx jifijx itsij qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx ytrfwts f
xz hfwlt d jhmfwts xtgwj xzx jxufqifx qf ijkjsxf ij qtx wjnstx, jq frufwt
ij qfx itshjqqfx, jq xthtwwt ij qtx mzéwkfstx d uzunqtx, jq hfxynlt ij qtx
xtgjwgntx d jq uwjrnt ij qtx mzrnqijx. Qtx ráx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj fltwf
xj zxfs, fsyjx qjx hwzojs qtx ifrfxhtx, qtx gwthfitx d tywfx wnhfx yjqfx ij
vzj xj anxyjs, vzj qf rfqqf hts vzj xj fwrfs; df st mfd hfgfqqjwt vzj
izjwrf js qtx hfrutx, xzojyt fq wnltw ijq hnjqt, fwrfit ij ytifx fwrfx
ijxij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef; d df st mfd vznjs, xns xfhfw qtx unjx ij qtx
jxywngtx, fwwnrfit f xz qfsef, xóqt uwthzwj ijxhfgjefw, htrt inhjs, jq
xzjñt, htrt qt mfhífs qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx. Df st mfd snslzst vzj,
xfqnjsit ijxyj gtxvzj, jsywj js fvzjqqf rtsyfñf, d ij fqqí unxj zsf jxyéwnq
d ijxnjwyf uqfdf ijq rfw, qfx ráx ajhjx uwthjqtxt d fqyjwfit, d, mfqqfsit
js jqqf d js xz twnqqf zs ujvzjñt gfyjq xns wjrtx, ajqf, ráxynq sn ofwhnf
fqlzsf, hts nsywéunit htwfeós xj fwwtoj js éq, jsywjlásitxj f qfx
nruqfhfgqjx tqfx ijq rfw uwtkzsit, vzj df qj xzgjs fq hnjqt d df qj gfofs
fq fgnxrt; d éq, uzjxyt jq ujhmt f qf nshtsywfxyfgqj gtwwfxhf, hzfsit rjstx
xj hfyf, xj mfqqf ywjx rnq d ráx qjlzfx inxyfsyj ijq qzlfw itsij xj
jrgfwhó, d, xfqyfsit js ynjwwf wjrtyf d st htsthnif, qj xzhjijs htxfx
inlsfx ij jxyfw jxhwnyfx, st js ujwlfrnstx, xnst js gwtshjx. Rfx fltwf, df
ywnzskf qf ujwjef ij qf inqnljshnf, qf thntxnifi ijq ywfgfot, jq anhnt ij
qf anwyzi, qf fwwtlfshnf ij qf afqjsyíf d qf yjównhf ij qf uwáhynhf ij qfx
fwrfx, vzj xóqt ananjwts d wjxuqfsijhnjwts js qfx jifijx ijq twt d js qtx
fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx. Xn st, iílfsrj: ¿vznés ráx mtsjxyt d ráx afqnjsyj vzj
jq kfrtxt Frfiíx ij Lfzqf?; ¿vznés ráx inxhwjyt vzj Ufqrjwís ij
Nslqfyjwwf?; ¿vznés ráx fhtrtifit d rfszfq vzj Ynwfsyj jq Gqfsht?; ¿vznés
ráx lfqás vzj Qnxzfwyj ij Lwjhnf?; ¿vznés ráx fhzhmnqqfit sn fhzhmnqqfitw
vzj its Gjqnfsíx?; ¿vznés ráx nsywéunit vzj Ujwnós ij Lfzqf, t vznés ráx
fhtrjyjitw ij ujqnlwtx vzj Kjqncrfwyj ij Mnwhfsnf, t vznés ráx xnshjwt vzj
Jxuqfsinás?; ¿vznés rfx fwwtofit vzj its Hnwtslnqnt ij Ywfhnf?; ¿vznés ráx
gwfat vzj Wtifrtsyj?; ¿vznés ráx uwzijsyj vzj jq wjd Xtgwnst?; ¿vznés ráx
fywjanit vzj Wjnsfqitx?; ¿vznés ráx nsajshngqj vzj Wtqiás?; d ¿vznés ráx
lfqqfwit d ráx htwyéx vzj Wzljwt, ij vznjs ijhnjsijs mtd qtx izvzjx ij
Kjwwfwf, xjlús Yzwuís js xz Htxrtlwfkíf? Ytitx jxytx hfgfqqjwtx, d tywtx
rzhmtx vzj uzinjwf ijhnw, xjñtw hzwf, kzjwts hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, qze d
lqtwnf ij qf hfgfqqjwíf. Iéxytx, t yfqjx htrt éxytx, vznxnjwf dt vzj kzjwfs
qtx ij rn fwgnywnt, vzj, f xjwqt, Xz Rfojxyfi xj mfqqfwf gnjs xjwanit d
fmtwwfwf ij rzhmt lfxyt, d jq Yzwht xj vzjifwf ujqfsit qfx gfwgfx, d hts
jxyt, st vznjwt vzjifw js rn hfxf, uzjx st rj xfhf jq hfujqqás ijqqf; d xn
xz Oúunyjw, htrt mf inhmt jq gfwgjwt, st qqtanjwj, fvzí jxytd dt, vzj
qqtajwé hzfsit xj rj fsytofwj. Inlt jxyt utwvzj xjuf jq xjñtw Gfhíf vzj qj
jsynjsit.

-Js ajwifi, xjñtw its Vznotyj -inot jq gfwgjwt-, vzj st qt inoj utw yfsyt,
d fxí rj fdzij Intx htrt kzj gzjsf rn nsyjshnós, d vzj st ijgj azjxywf
rjwhji xjsynwxj.

-Xn uzjit xjsynwrj t st -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, dt rj qt xé.

F jxyt inot jq hzwf:

-Fzs gnjs vzj dt hfxn st mj mfgqfit ufqfgwf mfxyf fmtwf, d st vznxnjwf
vzjifw hts zs jxhwúuzqt vzj rj wtj d jxhfwgf qf htshnjshnf, sfhnit ij qt
vzj fvzí jq xjñtw its Vznotyj mf inhmt.

-Ufwf tywfx htxfx ráx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- ynjsj qnhjshnf jq xjñtw hzwf;
d fxí, uzjij ijhnw xz jxhwúuzqt, utwvzj st jx ij lzxyt fsifw hts qf
htshnjshnf jxhwzuzqtxf.

-Uzjx hts jxj gjsjuqáhnyt -wjxutsinó jq hzwf-, inlt vzj rn jxhwúuzqt jx vzj
st rj uzjit ujwxzfinw js snslzsf rfsjwf f vzj ytif qf hfyjwaf ij hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, mf wjkjwnit, mfdfs xnit
wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj ujwxtsfx ij hfwsj d mzjxt js jq rzsit; fsyjx, nrflnst
vzj ytit jx knhhnós, kágzqf d rjsynwf, d xzjñtx htsyfitx utw mtrgwjx
ijxunjwytx, t, utw rjotw ijhnw, rjint itwrnitx.

-Éxj jx tywt jwwtw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- js vzj mfs hfíit rzhmtx, vzj st
hwjjs vzj mfdf mfgnit yfqjx hfgfqqjwtx js jq rzsit; d dt rzhmfx ajhjx,
hts inajwxfx ljsyjx d thfxntsjx, mj uwthzwfit xfhfw f qf qze ij qf ajwifi
jxyj hfxn htrús jslfñt; ujwt fqlzsfx ajhjx st mj xfqnit hts rn nsyjshnós, d
tywfx xí, xzxyjsyásitqf xtgwj qtx mtrgwtx ij qf ajwifi; qf hzfq ajwifi jx
yfs hnjwyf, vzj jxytd utw ijhnw vzj hts rnx uwtuntx totx an f Frfiíx ij
Lfzqf, vzj jwf zs mtrgwj fqyt ij hzjwut, gqfsht ij wtxywt, gnjs uzjxyt ij
gfwgf, fzsvzj sjlwf, ij anxyf jsywj gqfsif d wnlzwtxf, htwyt ij wfetsjx,
yfwit js fnwfwxj d uwjxyt js ijutsjw qf nwf; d ijq rtit vzj mj ijqnsjfit f
Frfiíx uzinjwf, f rn ufwjhjw, unsyfw d ijxhzgwnw ytitx hzfsytx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx fsifs js qfx mnxytwnfx js jq twgj, vzj, utw qf fuwjmjsxnós vzj
yjslt ij vzj kzjwts htrt xzx mnxytwnfx hzjsyfs, d utw qfx mfefñfx vzj
mnhnjwts d htsinhntsjx vzj yzanjwts, xj uzjijs xfhfw utw gzjsf knqtxtkíf
xzx kfhntsjx, xzx htqtwjx d jxyfyzwfx.

-¿Vzj yfs lwfsij qj ufwjhj f azjxywf rjwhji, rn xjñtw its Vznotyj -uwjlzsyó
jq gfwgjwt-, ijgíf ij xjw jq lnlfsyj Rtwlfsyj?

-Js jxyt ij lnlfsyjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- mfd inkjwjsyjx tunsntsjx, xn
qtx mf mfgnit t st js jq rzsit; ujwt qf Xfsyf Jxhwnyzwf, vzj st uzjij
kfqyfw zs áytrt js qf ajwifi, stx rzjxywf vzj qtx mzgt, htsyásitstx qf
mnxytwnf ij fvzjq knqnxyjfet ij Ltqífx, vzj yjsíf xnjyj htitx d rjint ij
fqyzwf, vzj jx zsf ijxrjxzwfif lwfsijef. Yfrgnés js qf nxqf ij Xnhnqnf xj
mfs mfqqfit hfsnqqfx d jxufqifx yfs lwfsijx, vzj xz lwfsijef rfsnknjxyf vzj
kzjwts lnlfsyjx xzx izjñtx, d yfs lwfsijx htrt lwfsijx ytwwjx; vzj qf
ljtrjywíf xfhf jxyf ajwifi ij izif. Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, st xfgwé ijhnw hts
hjwynizrgwj vzé yfrfñt yzanjxj Rtwlfsyj, fzsvzj nrflnst vzj st ijgnó ij xjw
rzd fqyt; d rzéajrj f xjw ijxyj ufwjhjw mfqqfw js qf mnxytwnf itsij xj mfhj
rjshnós ufwynhzqfw ij xzx mfefñfx vzj rzhmfx ajhjx itwríf ijgfot ij
yjhmfit; d, uzjx mfqqfgf hfxf itsij hzunjxj, hqfwt jxyá vzj st jwf
ijxrjxzwfif xz lwfsijef.

-Fxí jx -inot jq hzwf.

Jq hzfq, lzxyfsit ij tíwqj ijhnw yfs lwfsijx inxufwfyjx, qj uwjlzsyó vzj
vzé xjsyíf fhjwhf ij qtx wtxywtx ij Wjnsfqitx ij Rtsyfqgás d ij its Wtqiás,
d ij qtx ijráx Ithj Ufwjx ij Kwfshnf, uzjx ytitx mfgífs xnit hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx.

-Ij Wjnsfqitx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- rj fywjat f ijhnw vzj jwf fshmt ij
wtxywt, ij htqtw gjwrjot, qtx totx gfnqfitwjx d fqlt xfqyfitx, uzsytxt d
htqéwnht js ijrfxíf, frnlt ij qfiwtsjx d ij ljsyj ujwinif. Ij Wtqiás, t
Wtytqfsit, t Twqfsit, vzj hts ytitx jxytx strgwjx qj strgwfs qfx mnxytwnfx,
xtd ij ufwjhjw d rj fknwrt vzj kzj ij rjinfsf jxyfyzwf, fshmt ij jxufqifx,
fqlt jxyjafit, rtwjst ij wtxywt d gfwgnyfmjñt, ajqqtxt js jq hzjwut d ij
anxyf frjsfefitwf; htwyt ij wfetsjx, ujwt rzd htrjinit d gnjs hwnfit.

-Xn st kzj Wtqiás ráx ljsynqmtrgwj vzj azjxywf rjwhji mf inhmt -wjuqnhó jq
hzwf-, st kzj rfwfanqqf vzj qf xjñtwf Fsléqnhf qf Gjqqf qj ijxijñfxj d
ijofxj utw qf lfqf, gwít d itsfnwj vzj ijgíf ij yjsjw jq rtwnqqt
gfwgnutsnjsyj f vznjs jqqf xj jsywjló; d fsizat inxhwjyf ij fifrfw fsyjx qf
gqfsizwf ij Rjitwt vzj qf fxujwjef ij Wtqiás.

-Jxf Fsléqnhf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xjñtw hzwf, kzj zsf itshjqqf
ijxywfíif, fsifwnjlf d fqlt fsytofinef, d yfs qqjst ijoó jq rzsit ij xzx
nrujwynsjshnfx htrt ij qf kfrf ij xz mjwrtxzwf: ijxuwjhnó rnq xjñtwjx, rnq
afqnjsyjx d rnq inxhwjytx, d htsyjsyóxj hts zs ufojhnqqt gfwgnqzhnt, xns
tywf mfhnjsif sn strgwj vzj jq vzj qj uzit ifw ij flwfijhnit qf frnxyfi vzj
lzfwió f xz frnlt. Jq lwfs hfsytw ij xz gjqqjef, jq kfrtxt Fwntxyt, utw st
fywjajwxj, t utw st vzjwjw hfsyfw qt vzj f jxyf xjñtwf qj xzhjinó ijxuzéx
ij xz wzns jsywjlt, vzj st ijgnjwts xjw htxfx ijrfxnfifrjsyj mtsjxyfx, qf
ijoó itsij inot:

D htrt ijq Hfyfd wjhngnó jq hjywt,

vzneá tywt hfsyfwá hts rjotw uqjhywt.

D, xns izif, vzj jxyt kzj htrt uwtkjhíf; vzj qtx utjyfx yfrgnés xj qqfrfs
afyjx, vzj vznjwj ijhnw finanstx. Aéjxj jxyf ajwifi hqfwf, utwvzj, ijxuzéx
fhá, zs kfrtxt utjyf fsifqze qqtwó d hfsyó xzx qálwnrfx, d tywt kfrtxt d
úsnht utjyf hfxyjqqfst hfsyó xz mjwrtxzwf.

-Iílfrj, xjñtw its Vznotyj -inot f jxyf xfeós jq gfwgjwt-, ¿st mf mfgnit
fqlús utjyf vzj mfdf mjhmt fqlzsf xáynwf f jxf xjñtwf Fsléqnhf, jsywj
yfsytx htrt qf mfs fqfgfit?

-Gnjs hwjt dt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj xn Xfhwnufsyj t Wtqiás kzjwfs
utjyfx, vzj df rj mzgnjwfs ofgtsfit f qf itshjqqf; utwvzj jx uwtunt d
sfyzwfq ij qtx utjyfx ijxijñfitx d st firnynitx ij xzx ifrfx knslnifx -t
knslnifx, js jkjyt, ij fvzéqqtx f vznjs jqqtx jxhtlnjwts utw xjñtwfx ij xzx
ujsxfrnjsytx-, ajslfwxj hts xáynwfx d qngjqtx (ajslfsef, utw hnjwyt,
nsinlsf ij ujhmtx ljsjwtxtx), ujwt mfxyf fltwf st mf qqjlfit f rn stynhnf
snslús ajwxt nskfrfytwnt htsywf qf xjñtwf Fsléqnhf, vzj ywzot wjazjqyt jq
rzsit.

-¡Rnqflwt! -inot jq hzwf.

D, js jxyt, tdjwts vzj qf frf d qf xtgwnsf, vzj df mfgífs ijofit qf
htsajwxfhnós, ifgfs lwfsijx athjx js jq ufynt, d fhzinjwts ytitx fq wznit.





Hfuíyzqt NN. Vzj ywfyf ij qf styfgqj ujsijshnf vzj Xfshmt Ufsef yzat hts qf
xtgwnsf d frf ij its Vznotyj, hts tywtx xzojytx lwfhntxtx


Hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf vzj qfx athjx vzj tdjwts its Vznotyj, jq hzwf d jq
gfwgjwt jwfs ij qf xtgwnsf d frf, vzj qfx ifgfs inhnjsit f Xfshmt Ufsef,
vzj uzlsfgf utw jsywfw f ajw f its Vznotyj, d jqqfx qj ijkjsiífs qf uzjwyf:

-¿Vzé vznjwj jxyj rtxywjsht js jxyf hfxf? Nitx f qf azjxywf, mjwrfst, vzj
atx xtnx, d st tywt, jq vzj ijxywfj d xtsxfhf f rn xjñtw, d qj qqjaf utw
jxtx fsizwwnfqjx.

F qt vzj Xfshmt wjxutsinó:

-Frf ij Xfyfsáx, jq xtsxfhfit, d jq ijxywfíit, d jq qqjafit utw jxtx
fsizwwnfqjx xtd dt, vzj st yz frt; éq rj qqjaó utw jxtx rzsitx, d atxtywfx
tx jslfñánx js qf rnyfi ijq ozxyt uwjhnt: éq rj xfhó ij rn hfxf hts
jslfñnkfx, uwtrjynésitrj zsf ísxzqf, vzj mfxyf fltwf qf jxujwt.

-Rfqfx ísxzqfx yj fmtlzjs -wjxutsinó qf xtgwnsf-, Xfshmt rfqinyt. D ¿vzé
xts ísxzqfx? ¿Jx fqlzsf htxf ij htrjw, ltqtxfet, htrnqós, vzj yú jwjx?

-St jx ij htrjw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, xnst ij ltgjwsfw d wjlnw rjotw vzj hzfywt
hnzifijx d vzj hzfywt fqhfqijx ij htwyj.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot jq frf-, st jsywfwénx fhá, xfht ij rfqifijx d htxyfq ij
rfqnhnfx. Ni f ltgjwsfw azjxywf hfxf d f qfgwfw azjxywtx ujlzofwjx, d
ijoftx ij uwjyjsijw ísxzqfx sn ísxzqtx.

Lwfsij lzxyt wjhjgífs jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt ij tíw jq htqtvznt ij qtx ywjx;
ujwt its Vznotyj, yjrjwtxt vzj Xfshmt xj ijxhtxnjxj d ijxgzhmfxj fqlús
rtsyós ij rfqnhntxfx sjhjifijx, d ythfxj js uzsytx vzj st qj jxyfwífs gnjs
f xz hwéinyt, qj qqfró, d mnet f qfx itx vzj hfqqfxjs d qj ijofxjs jsywfw.
Jsywó Xfshmt, d jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt xj ijxuninjwts ij its Vznotyj, ij hzdf
xfqzi ijxjxujwfwts, anjsit hzás uzjxyt jxyfgf js xzx ijxafwnfitx
ujsxfrnjsytx, d hzás jrgjgnit js qf xnruqnhnifi ij xzx rfqfsifsyjx
hfgfqqjwífx; d fxí, inot jq hzwf fq gfwgjwt:

-Atx ajwénx, htrufiwj, hórt, hzfsit rjstx qt ujsxjrtx, szjxywt mnifqlt xfqj
tywf aje f atqfw qf wngjwf.

St utslt dt izif js jxt -wjxutsinó jq gfwgjwt-, ujwt st rj rfwfanqqt yfsyt
ij qf qthzwf ijq hfgfqqjwt htrt ij qf xnruqnhnifi ijq jxhzijwt, vzj yfs
hwjíit ynjsj fvzjqqt ij qf ísxzqf, vzj hwjt vzj st xj qt xfhfwás ijq hfxht
hzfsytx ijxjslfñtx uzjijs nrflnsfwxj.

-Intx qtx wjrjinj -inot jq hzwf-, d jxyjrtx f qf rnwf: ajwjrtx js qt vzj
ufwf jxyf rávznsf ij inxufwfyjx ij yfq hfgfqqjwt d ij yfq jxhzijwt, vzj
ufwjhj vzj qtx ktwofwts f qtx itx js zsf rjxrf yzwvzjxf, d vzj qfx qthzwfx
ijq xjñtw, xns qfx sjhjifijx ijq hwnfit, st afqífs zs fwinyj.

-Fxí jx -inot jq gfwgjwt-, d mtqlfwf rzhmt xfgjw vzé ywfyfwás fmtwf qtx
itx.

-Dt xjlzwt -wjxutsinó jq hzwf- vzj qf xtgwnsf t jq frf stx qt hzjsyf
ijxuzéx, vzj st xts ij htsinhnós vzj ijofwás ij jxhzhmfwqt.

Js yfsyt, its Vznotyj xj jshjwwó hts Xfshmt js xz futxjsyt; d, jxyfsit
xtqtx, qj inot:

-Rzhmt rj ujxf, Xfshmt, vzj mfdfx inhmt d inlfx vzj dt kzn jq vzj yj xfvzé
ij yzx hfxnqqfx, xfgnjsit vzj dt st rj vzjié js rnx hfxfx: ozsytx xfqnrtx,
ozsytx kznrtx d ozsytx ujwjlwnsfrtx; zsf rnxrf ktwyzsf d zsf rnxrf xzjwyj
mf htwwnit utw qtx itx: xn f yn yj rfsyjfwts zsf aje, f rí rj mfs rtqnit
hnjsyt, d jxyt jx qt vzj yj qqjat ij ajsyfof.

-Jxt jxyfgf uzjxyt js wfeós -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj, xjlús azjxywf
rjwhji inhj, ráx fsjofx xts f qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx qfx ijxlwfhnfx vzj f
xzx jxhzijwtx.

-Jsláñfxyj, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-; xjlús fvzjqqt, vzfsit hfuzy
itqjy..., jyhéyjwf.

-St jsynjsit tywf qjslzf vzj qf ríf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Vznjwt ijhnw -inot its Vznotyj- vzj, hzfsit qf hfgjef izjqj, ytitx qtx
rnjrgwtx izjqjs; d fxí, xnjsit dt yz frt d xjñtw, xtd yz hfgjef, d yú rn
ufwyj, uzjx jwjx rn hwnfit; d, utw jxyf wfeós, jq rfq vzj f rí rj ythf, t
ythfwj, f yn yj mf ij itqjw, d f rí jq yzdt.

-Fxí mfgíf ij xjw -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt hzfsit f rí rj rfsyjfgfs htrt f
rnjrgwt, xj jxyfgf rn hfgjef ijywáx ij qfx gfwifx, rnwásitrj atqfw utw qtx
fnwjx, xns xjsynw itqtw fqlzst; d, uzjx qtx rnjrgwtx jxyás tgqnlfitx f
itqjwxj ijq rfq ij qf hfgjef, mfgíf ij jxyfw tgqnlfif jqqf f itqjwxj
ijqqtx.

-¿Vzjwwáx yú ijhnw fltwf, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj st rj itqíf
dt hzfsit f yn yj rfsyjfgfs? D xn qt inhjx, st qt inlfx, sn qt unjsxjx;
uzjx ráx itqtw xjsyíf dt jsytshjx js rn jxuíwnyz vzj yú js yz hzjwut. Ujwt
ijojrtx jxyt fufwyj utw fltwf, vzj ynjrut mfgwá itsij qt utsijwjrtx d
utslfrtx js xz uzsyt, d inrj, Xfshmt frnlt: ¿vzé jx qt vzj inhjs ij rí utw
jxj qzlfw? ¿Js vzé tunsnós rj ynjsj jq azqlt, js vzé qtx mnifqltx d js vzé
qtx hfgfqqjwtx? ¿Vzé inhjs ij rn afqjsyíf, vzé ij rnx mfefñfx d vzé ij rn
htwyjxíf? ¿Vzé xj uqfynhf ijq fxzruyt vzj mj ytrfit ij wjxzhnyfw d atqajw
fq rzsit qf df tqanifif twijs hfgfqqjwjxhf? Knsfqrjsyj, vznjwt, Xfshmt, rj
inlfx qt vzj fhjwhf ijxyt mf qqjlfit f yzx tíitx; d jxyt rj mfx ij ijhnw
xns fñfinw fq gnjs sn vznyfw fq rfq htxf fqlzsf, vzj ij qtx afxfqqtx qjfqjx
jx ijhnw qf ajwifi f xzx xjñtwjx js xz xjw d knlzwf uwtunf, xns vzj qf
fizqfhnós qf fhwjhnjsyj t tywt afst wjxujyt qf inxrnszdf; d vznjwt vzj
xjufx, Xfshmt, vzj xn f qtx tíitx ij qtx uwíshnujx qqjlfxj qf ajwifi
ijxszif, xns qtx ajxynitx ij qf qnxtsof, tywtx xnlqtx htwwjwífs, tywfx
jifijx xjwífs yjsnifx utw ráx ij mnjwwt vzj qf szjxywf, vzj jsynjsit vzj,
ij qfx vzj fmtwf xj zxfs, jx qf itwfif. Xíwafyj jxyj fiajwynrnjsyt, Xfshmt,
ufwf vzj inxhwjyf d gnjsnsyjshntsfifrjsyj utslfx js rnx tíitx qf ajwifi ij
qfx htxfx vzj xzunjwjx ij qt vzj yj mj uwjlzsyfit.

-Jxt mfwé dt ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, xjñtw rít -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, hts htsinhnós
vzj azjxywf rjwhji st xj mf ij jstofw ij qt vzj inojwj, uzjx vznjwj vzj qt
inlf js hzjwtx, xns ajxynwqt ij tywfx wtufx ij fvzjqqfx hts vzj qqjlfwts f
rn stynhnf.

-Js snslzsf rfsjwf rj jstofwé -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Gnjs uzjijx, Xfshmt,
mfgqfw qngwjrjsyj d xns wtijt fqlzst.

-Uzjx qt uwnrjwt vzj inlt -inot-, jx vzj jq azqlt ynjsj f azjxywf rjwhji
utw lwfsiíxnrt qtht, d f rí utw st rjstx rjsyjhfyt. Qtx mnifqltx inhjs vzj,
st htsyjsnésitxj azjxywf rjwhji js qtx qírnyjx ij qf mnifqlzíf, xj mf
uzjxyt its d xj mf fwwjrjynit f hfgfqqjwt hts hzfywt hjufx d itx dzlfifx ij
ynjwwf d hts zs ywfut fywáx d tywt fijqfsyj. Inhjs qtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj st
vzjwwífs vzj qtx mnifqltx xj tuzxnjxjs f jqqtx, jxujhnfqrjsyj fvzjqqtx
mnifqltx jxhzijwnqjx vzj ifs mzrt f qtx efufytx d ytrfs qtx uzsytx ij qfx
rjinfx sjlwfx hts xjif ajwij.

-Jxt -inot its Vznotyj- st ynjsj vzj ajw htsrnlt, uzjx fsit xnjruwj gnjs
ajxynit, d ofráx wjrjsifit; wtyt, gnjs utiwíf xjw; d jq wtyt, ráx ij qfx
fwrfx vzj ijq ynjrut.

-Js qt vzj ythf -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt- f qf afqjsyíf, htwyjxíf, mfefñfx d
fxzruyt ij azjxywf rjwhji, mfd inkjwjsyjx tunsntsjx; zstx inhjs: "qtht,
ujwt lwfhntxt"; tywtx, "afqnjsyj, ujwt ijxlwfhnfit"; tywtx, "htwyéx, ujwt
nrujwynsjsyj"; d utw fvzí afs inxhzwwnjsit js yfsyfx htxfx, vzj sn f
azjxywf rjwhji sn f rí stx ijofs mzjxt xfst.

-Rnwf, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-: itsijvznjwf vzj jxyá qf anwyzi js
jrnsjsyj lwfit, jx ujwxjlznif. Uthtx t snslzst ij qtx kfrtxtx afwtsjx vzj
ufxfwts ijoó ij xjw hfqzrsnfit ij qf rfqnhnf. Ozqnt Héxfw, fsnrtxíxnrt,
uwzijsyíxnrt d afqjsyíxnrt hfunyás, kzj styfit ij frgnhntxt d fqlús yfsyt
st qnrunt, sn js xzx ajxynitx sn js xzx htxyzrgwjx. Fqjofsiwt, f vznjs xzx
mfefñfx qj fqhfsefwts jq wjstrgwj ij Rflst, inhjs iéq vzj yzat xzx hnjwytx
uzsytx ij gtwwfhmt. Ij Méwhzqjx, jq ij qtx rzhmtx ywfgfotx, xj hzjsyf vzj
kzj qfxhnat d rzjqqj. Ij its Lfqftw, mjwrfst ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf, xj rzwrzwf
vzj kzj ráx vzj ijrfxnfifrjsyj wnotxt; d ij xz mjwrfst, vzj kzj qqtwós. Fxí
vzj, ¡tm Xfshmt!, jsywj qfx yfsyfx hfqzrsnfx ij gzjstx, gnjs uzjijs ufxfw
qfx rífx, htrt st xjfs ráx ij qfx vzj mfx inhmt.

-¡Fmí jxyá jq ytvzj, hzjwut ij rn ufiwj! -wjuqnhó Xfshmt.

-Uzjx, ¿mfd ráx? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Fús qf htqf kfqyf utw ijxtqqfw -inot Xfshmt-. Qt ij mfxyf fvzí xts ytwyfx
d ufs unsyfit; rfx xn azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj xfgjw ytit qt vzj mfd fhjwhf ij
qfx hfqtñfx vzj qj utsjs, dt qj ywfjwé fvzí qzjlt fq rtrjsyt vznjs xj qfx
inlf ytifx, xns vzj qjx kfqyj zsf rjfof; vzj fsthmj qqjló jq mnot ij
Gfwytqtré Hfwwfxht, vzj anjsj ij jxyzinfw ij Xfqfrfshf, mjhmt gfhmnqqjw, d,
désitqj dt f ifw qf gnjsajsnif, rj inot vzj fsifgf df js qngwtx qf mnxytwnf
ij azjxywf rjwhji, hts strgwj ijq Nsljsntxt Mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf; d inhj vzj rj rnjsyfs f rí js jqqf hts rn rjxrt strgwj ij Xfshmt
Ufsef, d f qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, hts tywfx htxfx vzj ufxfrtx
stxtywtx f xtqfx, vzj rj mnhj hwzhjx ij jxufsyfit hórt qfx uzit xfgjw jq
mnxytwnfitw vzj qfx jxhwngnó.

-Dt yj fxjlzwt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj ijgj ij xjw fqlús xfgnt
jshfsyfitw jq fzytw ij szjxywf mnxytwnf; vzj f qtx yfqjx st xj qjx jshzgwj
sfif ij qt vzj vznjwjs jxhwngnw.

-D ¡hórt -inot Xfshmt- xn jwf xfgnt d jshfsyfitw, uzjx (xjlús inhj jq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, vzj fxí xj qqfrf jq vzj inhmt yjslt) vzj jq
fzytw ij qf mnxytwnf xj qqfrf Hnij Mfrjyj Gjwjsojsf!

-Jxj strgwj jx ij rtwt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-Fxí xjwá -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj utw qf rfdtw ufwyj mj tíit ijhnw vzj
qtx rtwtx xts frnltx ij gjwjsojsfx.

-Yú ijgjx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, jwwfwyj js jq xtgwjstrgwj ij jxj
Hnij, vzj js fwágnlt vznjwj ijhnw xjñtw.

-Gnjs utiwíf xjw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, rfx, xn azjxywf rjwhji lzxyf vzj dt qj
mflf ajsnw fvzí, nwé utw éq js atqfsifx.

-Mfwáxrj rzhmt uqfhjw, frnlt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj rj ynjsj xzxujsxt qt
vzj rj mfx inhmt, d st htrjwé gthfit vzj gnjs rj xjuf mfxyf xjw nsktwrfit
ij ytit.

-Uzjx dt atd utw éq -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

D, ijofsit f xz xjñtw, xj kzj f gzxhfw fq gfhmnqqjw, hts jq hzfq atqanó ij
fqqí f utht jxufhnt, d jsywj qtx ywjx ufxfwts zs lwfhntxíxnrt htqtvznt.





Hfuíyzqt NNN. Ijq wniíhzqt wfetsfrnjsyt vzj ufxó jsywj its Vznotyj, Xfshmt
Ufsef d jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht


Ujsxfynat fijráx vzjió its Vznotyj, jxujwfsit fq gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht, ij
vznjs jxujwfgf tíw qfx szjafx ij xí rnxrt uzjxyfx js qngwt, htrt mfgíf
inhmt Xfshmt; d st xj utiíf ujwxzfinw f vzj yfq mnxytwnf mzgnjxj, uzjx fús
st jxyfgf jsozyf js qf hzhmnqqf ij xz jxufif qf xfslwj ij qtx jsjrnltx vzj
mfgíf rzjwyt, d df vzjwífs vzj fsizanjxjs js jxyfruf xzx fqyfx hfgfqqjwífx.
Hts ytit jxt, nrflnsó vzj fqlús xfgnt, t df frnlt t jsjrnlt, utw fwyj ij
jshfsyfrjsyt qfx mfgwá ifit f qf jxyfruf: xn frnlt, ufwf jslwfsijhjwqfx d
qjafsyfwqfx xtgwj qfx ráx xjñfqfifx ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; xn jsjrnlt, ufwf
fsnvznqfwqfx d utsjwqfx ijgfot ij qfx ráx anqjx vzj ij fqlús anq jxhzijwt
xj mzgnjxjs jxhwnyt, uzjxyt -ijhíf jsywj xí- vzj szshf mfefñfx ij jxhzijwtx
xj jxhwngnjwts; d hzfsit kzjxj ajwifi vzj qf yfq mnxytwnf mzgnjxj, xnjsit
ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, utw kzjwef mfgíf ij xjw lwfsiíqthzf, fqyf, nsxnlsj,
rflsíknhf d ajwifijwf.

Hts jxyt xj htsxtqó fqlús yfsyt, ujwt ijxhtsxtqóqj ujsxfw vzj xz fzytw jwf
rtwt, xjlús fvzjq strgwj ij Hnij; d ij qtx rtwtx st xj utiíf jxujwfw ajwifi
fqlzsf, utwvzj ytitx xts jrgjqjhfitwjx, kfqxfwntx d vznrjwnxyfx. Yjrífxj st
mzgnjxj ywfyfit xzx frtwjx hts fqlzsf nsijhjshnf, vzj wjizsifxj js
rjstxhfgt d ujwoznhnt ij qf mtsjxynifi ij xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt;
ijxjfgf vzj mzgnjxj ijhqfwfit xz knijqnifi d jq ijhtwt vzj xnjruwj qf mfgíf
lzfwifit, rjstxuwjhnfsit wjnsfx, jrujwfywnhjx d itshjqqfx ij ytifx
hfqnifijx, yjsnjsit f wfdf qtx írujyzx ij qtx sfyzwfqjx rtanrnjsytx; d fxí,
jsazjqyt d wjazjqyt js jxyfx d tywfx rzhmfx nrflnsfhntsjx, qj mfqqfwts
Xfshmt d Hfwwfxht, f vznjs its Vznotyj wjhngnó hts rzhmf htwyjxíf.

Jwf jq gfhmnqqjw, fzsvzj xj qqfrfgf Xfsxós, st rzd lwfsij ij hzjwut, fzsvzj
rzd lwfs xthfwwós, ij htqtw rfhnqjsyf, ujwt ij rzd gzjs jsyjsinrnjsyt;
yjsiwíf mfxyf ajnsyj d hzfywt fñtx, hfwnwwjitsit, ij sfwne hmfyf d ij
gthf lwfsij, xjñfqjx ytifx ij xjw ij htsinhnós rfqnhntxf d frnlt ij
itsfnwjx d ij gzwqfx, htrt qt rtxywó js anjsit f its Vznotyj, utsnésitxj
ijqfsyj iéq ij wtinqqfx, inhnésitqj:

-Iérj azjxywf lwfsijef qfx rfstx, xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf; vzj, utw
jq mágnyt ij Xfs Ujiwt vzj anxyt, fzsvzj st yjslt tywfx ówijsjx vzj qfx
hzfywt uwnrjwfx, vzj jx azjxywf rjwhji zst ij qtx ráx kfrtxtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx vzj mf mfgnit, sn fzs mfgwá, js ytif qf wjitsije ij qf ynjwwf.
Gnjs mfdf Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, vzj qf mnxytwnf ij azjxywfx lwfsijefx ijoó
jxhwnyfx, d wjgnés mfdf jq hzwntxt vzj yzat hznifit ij mfhjwqfx ywfizhnw ij
fwágnlt js szjxywt azqlfw hfxyjqqfst, ufwf zsnajwxfq jsywjyjsnrnjsyt ij qfx
ljsyjx.

Míetqj qjafsyfw its Vznotyj, d inot:

-Ijxf rfsjwf, ¿ajwifi jx vzj mfd mnxytwnf ríf, d vzj kzj rtwt d xfgnt jq
vzj qf htruzxt?

-Jx yfs ajwifi, xjñtw -inot Xfsxós-, vzj yjslt ufwf rí vzj jq iíf ij mtd
jxyás nruwjxtx ráx ij ithj rnq qngwtx ij qf yfq mnxytwnf; xn st, iílfqt
Utwyzlfq, Gfwhjqtsf d Afqjshnf, itsij xj mfs nruwjxt; d fzs mfd kfrf vzj xj
jxyá nruwnrnjsit js Frgjwjx, d f rí xj rj ywfxqzhj vzj st mf ij mfgjw
sfhnós sn qjslzf itsij st xj ywfizelf.

-Zsf ij qfx htxfx -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj- vzj ráx ijgj ij ifw
htsyjsyt f zs mtrgwj anwyztxt d jrnsjsyj jx ajwxj, ananjsit, fsifw hts gzjs
strgwj utw qfx qjslzfx ij qfx ljsyjx, nruwjxt d js jxyfruf. Inoj hts gzjs
strgwj utwvzj, xnjsit fq htsywfwnt, snslzsf rzjwyj xj qj nlzfqfwá.

-Xn utw gzjsf kfrf d xn utw gzjs strgwj af -inot jq gfhmnqqjw-, xtqt
azjxywf rjwhji qqjaf qf ufqrf f ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx; utwvzj jq
rtwt js xz qjslzf d jq hwnxynfst js qf xzdf yzanjwts hznifit ij unsyfwstx
rzd fq anat qf lfqqfwiíf ij azjxywf rjwhji, jq ásnrt lwfsij js fhtrjyjw qtx
ujqnlwtx, qf ufhnjshnf js qfx fiajwxnifijx d jq xzkwnrnjsyt, fxí js qfx
ijxlwfhnfx htrt js qfx mjwnifx, qf mtsjxynifi d htsynsjshnf js qtx frtwjx
yfs uqfyósnhtx ij azjxywf rjwhji d ij rn xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

-Szshf -inot f jxyj uzsyt Xfshmt Ufsef- mj tíit qqfrfw hts its f rn xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf, xnst xtqfrjsyj qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, d df js jxyt fsif
jwwfif qf mnxytwnf.

-St jx tgojhnós ij nrutwyfshnf éxf -wjxutsinó Hfwwfxht.

-St, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; ujwt iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw
gfhmnqqjw: ¿vzé mfefñfx rífx xts qfx vzj ráx xj utsijwfs js jxf mnxytwnf?

-Js jxt -wjxutsinó jq gfhmnqqjw-, mfd inkjwjsyjx tunsntsjx, htrt mfd
inkjwjsyjx lzxytx: zstx xj fynjsjs f qf fajsyzwf ij qtx rtqnstx ij anjsyt,
vzj f azjxywf rjwhji qj ufwjhnjwts Gwnfwjtx d lnlfsyjx; tywtx, f qf ij qtx
gfyfsjx; éxyj, f qf ijxhwnuhnós ij qtx itx joéwhnytx, vzj ijxuzéx
ufwjhnjwts xjw itx rfsfifx ij hfwsjwtx; fvzéq jshfwjhj qf ijq rzjwyt vzj
qqjafgfs f jsyjwwfw f Xjltanf; zst inhj vzj f ytifx xj fajsyfof qf ij qf
qngjwyfi ij qtx lfqjtyjx; tywt, vzj snslzsf nlzfqf f qf ij qtx itx lnlfsyjx
gjsnytx, hts qf ujsijshnf ijq afqjwtxt anehfíst.

-Iílfrj, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt-: ¿jsywf fmí qf fajsyzwf
ij qtx dfslüjxjx, hzfsit f szjxywt gzjs Wthnsfsyj xj qj fsytoó ujinw
htyzkfx js jq ltqkt?

-St xj qj vzjió sfif -wjxutsinó Xfsxós- fq xfgnt js jq ynsyjwt: ytit qt
inhj d ytit qt fuzsyf, mfxyf qt ij qfx hfgwntqfx vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt mnet js
qf rfsyf.

-Js qf rfsyf st mnhj dt hfgwntqfx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; js jq fnwj xí, d fzs
ráx ij qfx vzj dt vznxnjwf.

-F qt vzj dt nrflnst -inot its Vznotyj-, st mfd mnxytwnf mzrfsf js jq rzsit
vzj st yjslf xzx fqyngfotx, jxujhnfqrjsyj qfx vzj ywfyfs ij hfgfqqjwífx,
qfx hzfqjx szshf uzjijs jxyfw qqjsfx ij uwóxujwtx xzhjxtx.

-Hts ytit jxt -wjxutsinó jq gfhmnqqjw-, inhjs fqlzstx vzj mfs qjíit qf
mnxytwnf vzj xj mtqlfwfs xj qjx mzgnjwf tqanifit f qtx fzytwjx ijqqf
fqlzstx ij qtx nsknsnytx ufqtx vzj js inkjwjsyjx jshzjsywtx injwts fq xjñtw
its Vznotyj.

-Fmí jsywf qf ajwifi ij qf mnxytwnf -inot Xfshmt.

-Yfrgnés uzinjwfs hfqqfwqtx utw jvznifi -inot its Vznotyj-, uzjx qfx
fhhntsjx vzj sn rzifs sn fqyjwfs qf ajwifi ij qf mnxytwnf st mfd ufwf vzé
jxhwngnwqfx, xn mfs ij wjizsifw js rjstxuwjhnt ijq xjñtw ij qf mnxytwnf. F
kjj vzj st kzj yfs unfitxt Jsjfx htrt Anwlnqnt qj unsyf, sn yfs uwzijsyj
Zqnxjx htrt qj ijxhwngj Mtrjwt.

-Fxí jx -wjuqnhó Xfsxós-, ujwt zst jx jxhwngnw htrt utjyf d tywt htrt
mnxytwnfitw: jq utjyf uzjij htsyfw, t hfsyfw qfx htxfx, st htrt kzjwts,
xnst htrt ijgífs xjw; d jq mnxytwnfitw qfx mf ij jxhwngnw, st htrt ijgífs
xjw, xnst htrt kzjwts, xns fñfinw sn vznyfw f qf ajwifi htxf fqlzsf.

-Uzjx xn jx vzj xj fsif f ijhnw ajwifijx jxj xjñtw rtwt -inot Xfshmt-, f
gzjs xjlzwt vzj jsywj qtx ufqtx ij rn xjñtw xj mfqqjs qtx rítx; utwvzj
szshf f xz rjwhji qj ytrfwts qf rjinif ij qfx jxufqifx vzj st rj qf ytrfxjs
f rí ij ytit jq hzjwut; ujwt st mfd ij vzé rfwfanqqfwrj, uzjx, htrt inhj jq
rnxrt xjñtw rít, ijq itqtw ij qf hfgjef mfs ij ufwynhnufw qtx rnjrgwtx.

-Xthfwwós xtnx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. F kjj vzj st tx kfqyf
rjrtwnf hzfsit atx vzjwénx yjsjwqf.

-Hzfsit dt vznxnjxj tqanifwrj ij qtx lfwwtyfetx vzj rj mfs ifit -inot
Xfshmt-, st qt htsxjsynwás qtx hfwijsfqjx, vzj fús xj jxyás kwjxhtx js qfx
htxynqqfx.

-Hfqqfi, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, d st nsyjwwzruánx fq xjñtw gfhmnqqjw, f
vznjs xzuqnht ufxj fijqfsyj js ijhnwrj qt vzj xj inhj ij rí js qf wjkjwnif
mnxytwnf.

-D ij rí -inot Xfshmt-, vzj yfrgnés inhjs vzj xtd dt zst ij qtx uwnshnufqjx
uwjxtsfojx ijqqf.

-Ujwxtsfojx vzj st uwjxtsfojx, Xfshmt frnlt -inot Xfsxós.

-¿Tywt wjuwthmfitw ij atvzngqjx yjsjrtx? -inot Xfshmt-. Uzjx ásijsxj f jxt,
d st fhfgfwjrtx js ytif qf anif.

-Rfqf rj qf ié Intx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó jq gfhmnqqjw-, xn st xtnx atx qf
xjlzsif ujwxtsf ij qf mnxytwnf; d vzj mfd yfq, vzj uwjhnf ráx tíwtx mfgqfw
f atx vzj fq ráx unsyfit ij ytif jqqf, uzjxyt vzj yfrgnés mfd vznjs inlf
vzj fsizanxyjx ijrfxnfifrjsyj ij hwéizqt js hwjjw vzj utiíf xjw ajwifi jq
ltgnjwst ij fvzjqqf ísxzqf, tkwjhnif utw jq xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj jxyá
uwjxjsyj.

-Fús mfd xtq js qfx gfwifx -inot its Vznotyj-, d, rnjsywfx ráx kzjwj
jsywfsit js jifi Xfshmt, hts qf jxujwnjshnf vzj ifs qtx fñtx, jxyfwá ráx
niósjt d ráx mágnq ufwf xjw ltgjwsfitw vzj st jxyá fltwf.

-Utw Intx, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, qf nxqf vzj dt st ltgjwsfxj hts qtx fñtx
vzj yjslt, st qf ltgjwsfwé hts qtx fñtx ij Rfyzxfqés. Jq ifñt jxyá js vzj
qf inhmf ísxzqf xj jsywjynjsj, st xé iósij, d st js kfqyfwrj f rí jq
hfqjywj ufwf ltgjwsfwqf.

-Jshtrjsifiqt f Intx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj ytit xj mfwá gnjs, d
vzneá rjotw ij qt vzj atx ujsxánx; vzj st xj rzjaj qf mtof js jq áwgtq xns
qf atqzsyfi ij Intx.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot Xfsxós-, vzj xn Intx vznjwj, st qj kfqyfwás f Xfshmt
rnq nxqfx vzj ltgjwsfw, hzfsyt ráx zsf.

-Ltgjwsfitw mj anxyt utw fmí -inot Xfshmt- vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, st qqjlfs f
qf xzjqf ij rn efufyt, d, hts ytit jxt, qtx qqfrfs xjñtwíf, d xj xnwajs hts
uqfyf.

-Éxtx st xts ltgjwsfitwjx ij ísxzqfx -wjuqnhó Xfsxós-, xnst ij tywtx
ltgnjwstx ráx rfszfqjx; vzj qtx vzj ltgnjwsfs ísxzqfx, utw qt rjstx mfs ij
xfgjw lwfráynhf.

-Hts qf lwfrf gnjs rj fajsiwíf dt -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt hts qf ynhf, sn rj
ynwt sn rj uflt, utwvzj st qf jsynjsit. Ujwt, ijofsit jxyt ijq ltgnjwst js
qfx rfstx ij Intx, vzj rj jhmj f qfx ufwyjx itsij ráx ij rí xj xnwaf, inlt,
xjñtw gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, vzj nsknsnyfrjsyj rj mf ifit lzxyt vzj jq
fzytw ij qf mnxytwnf mfdf mfgqfit ij rí ij rfsjwf vzj st jskfifs qfx htxfx
vzj ij rí xj hzjsyfs; vzj f kj ij gzjs jxhzijwt vzj xn mzgnjwf inhmt ij rí
htxfx vzj st kzjwfs rzd ij hwnxynfst anjot, htrt xtd, vzj stx mfgífs ij tíw
qtx xtwitx.

-Jxt kzjwf mfhjw rnqflwtx -wjxutsinó Xfsxós.

-Rnqflwtx t st rnqflwtx -inot Xfshmt-, hfif zst rnwj hórt mfgqf t hórt
jxhwngj ij qfx uwjxtsfx, d st utslf f ywthmj rthmj qt uwnrjwt vzj qj anjsj
fq rflís.

-Zsf ij qfx yfhmfx vzj utsjs f qf yfq mnxytwnf -inot jq gfhmnqqjw- jx vzj
xz fzytw uzxt js jqqf zsf stajqf nsynyzqfif Jq hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj; st utw
rfqf sn utw rfq wfetsfif, xnst utw st xjw ij fvzjq qzlfw, sn ynjsj vzj ajw
hts qf mnxytwnf ij xz rjwhji ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj.

-Dt futxyfwé -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj mf rjehqfit jq mnijujwwt gjwefx hts
hfufhmtx.

-Fmtwf inlt -inot its Vznotyj- vzj st mf xnit xfgnt jq fzytw ij rn
mnxytwnf, xnst fqlús nlstwfsyj mfgqfitw, vzj, f ynjsyt d xns fqlús
inxhzwxt, xj uzxt f jxhwngnwqf, xfqlf qt vzj xfqnjwj, htrt mfhíf Twgfsjof,
jq unsytw ij Úgjif, fq hzfq uwjlzsyásitqj vzé unsyfgf, wjxutsinó: ''Qt vzj
xfqnjwj''. Yfq aje unsyfgf zs lfqqt, ij yfq xzjwyj d yfs rfq ufwjhnit, vzj
jwf rjsjxyjw vzj hts qjywfx lóynhfx jxhwngnjxj ozsyt f éq: "Éxyj jx lfqqt".
D fxí ijgj ij xjw ij rn mnxytwnf, vzj yjsiwá sjhjxnifi ij htrjsyt ufwf
jsyjsijwqf.

-Jxt st -wjxutsinó Xfsxós-, utwvzj jx yfs hqfwf, vzj st mfd htxf vzj
inknhzqyfw js jqqf: qtx snñtx qf rfstxjfs, qtx rtetx qf qjjs, qtx mtrgwjx
qf jsynjsijs d qtx anjotx qf hjqjgwfs; d, knsfqrjsyj, jx yfs ywnqqfif d yfs
qjíif d yfs xfgnif ij ytit lésjwt ij ljsyjx, vzj, fujsfx mfs anxyt fqlús
wthís kqfht, hzfsit inhjs: "fqqí af Wthnsfsyj". D qtx vzj ráx xj mfs ifit f
xz qjyzwf xts qtx ufojx: st mfd fsyjhárfwf ij xjñtw itsij st xj mfqqj zs
Its Vznotyj: zstx qj ytrfs xn tywtx qj ijofs; éxytx qj jrgnxyjs d fvzéqqtx
qj unijs. Knsfqrjsyj, qf yfq mnxytwnf jx ijq ráx lzxytxt d rjstx
ujwozinhnfq jsywjyjsnrnjsyt vzj mfxyf fltwf xj mfdf anxyt, utwvzj js ytif
jqqf st xj ijxhzgwj, sn utw xjrjofx, zsf ufqfgwf ijxmtsjxyf sn zs
ujsxfrnjsyt rjstx vzj hfyóqnht.

-F jxhwngnw ij tywf xzjwyj -inot its Vznotyj-, st kzjwf jxhwngnw ajwifijx,
xnst rjsynwfx; d qtx mnxytwnfitwjx vzj ij rjsynwfx xj afqjs mfgífs ij xjw
vzjrfitx, htrt qtx vzj mfhjs rtsjif kfqxf; d st xé dt vzé qj rtanó fq fzytw
f afqjwxj ij stajqfx d hzjsytx fojstx, mfgnjsit yfsyt vzj jxhwngnw js qtx
rítx: xns izif xj ijgnó ij fyjsjw fq wjkwás: "Ij ufof d ij mjst...",
jyhéyjwf. Uzjx js ajwifi vzj js xóqt rfsnkjxyfw rnx ujsxfrnjsytx, rnx
xtxunwtx, rnx qálwnrfx, rnx gzjstx ijxjtx d rnx fhtrjynrnjsytx uzinjwf
mfhjw zs atqzrjs rfdtw, t yfs lwfsij vzj jq vzj uzjijs mfhjw ytifx qfx
tgwfx ijq Ytxyfit. Js jkjyt, qt vzj dt fqhfset, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw, jx vzj
ufwf htrutsjw mnxytwnfx d qngwtx, ij hzfqvznjw xzjwyj vzj xjfs, jx rjsjxyjw
zs lwfs oznhnt d zs rfizwt jsyjsinrnjsyt. Ijhnw lwfhnfx d jxhwngnw itsfnwjx
jx ij lwfsijx nsljsntx: qf ráx inxhwjyf knlzwf ij qf htrjinf jx qf ijq
gtgt, utwvzj st qt mf ij xjw jq vzj vznjwj ifw f jsyjsijw vzj jx xnruqj. Qf
mnxytwnf jx htrt htxf xflwfif; utwvzj mf ij xjw ajwifijwf, d itsij jxyá qf
ajwifi jxyá Intx, js hzfsyt f ajwifi; ujwt, st tgxyfsyj jxyt, mfd fqlzstx
vzj fxí htrutsjs d fwwtofs qngwtx ij xí htrt xn kzjxjs gzñzjqtx.

-St mfd qngwt yfs rfqt -inot jq gfhmnqqjw- vzj st yjslf fqlt gzjst.

-St mfd izif js jxt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-; ujwt rzhmfx ajhjx fhtsyjhj vzj
qtx vzj yjsífs réwnyfrjsyj lwfsojfif d fqhfsefif lwfs kfrf utw xzx
jxhwnytx, js iásitqtx f qf jxyfruf, qf ujwinjwts ijq ytit, t qf
rjstxhfgfwts js fqlt.

-Qf hfzxf ijxt jx -inot Xfsxós- vzj, htrt qfx tgwfx nruwjxfx xj rnwfs
ijxufhnt, káhnqrjsyj xj ajjs xzx kfqyfx, d yfsyt ráx xj jxhziwnñfs hzfsyt
jx rfdtw qf kfrf ijq vzj qfx htruzxt. Qtx mtrgwjx kfrtxtx utw xzx nsljsntx,
qtx lwfsijx utjyfx, qtx nqzxywjx mnxytwnfitwjx, xnjruwj, t qfx ráx ajhjx,
xts jsaninfitx ij fvzjqqtx vzj ynjsjs utw lzxyt d utw ufwynhzqfw
jsywjyjsnrnjsyt ozelfw qtx jxhwnytx fojstx, xns mfgjw ifit fqlzstx uwtuntx
f qf qze ijq rzsit.

-Jxt st jx ij rfwfanqqfw -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj rzhmtx yjóqtltx mfd vzj
st xts gzjstx ufwf jq uúqunyt, d xts gtsíxnrtx ufwf htsthjw qfx kfqyfx t
xtgwfx ij qtx vzj uwjinhfs.

-Ytit jxt jx fxí, xjñtw its Vznotyj -inot Hfwwfxht-, ujwt vznxnjwf dt vzj
qtx yfqjx hjsxzwfitwjx kzjwfs ráx rnxjwnhtwintxtx d rjstx jxhwzuzqtxtx, xns
fyjsjwxj f qtx áytrtx ijq xtq hqfwíxnrt ij qf tgwf ij vzj rzwrzwfs; vzj xn
fqnvzfsit gtszx itwrnyfy Mtrjwzx, htsxnijwjs qt rzhmt vzj jxyzat ijxunjwyt,
utw ifw qf qze ij xz tgwf hts qf rjstx xtrgwf vzj uzinjxj; d vzneá utiwíf
xjw vzj qt vzj f jqqtx qjx ufwjhj rfq kzjxjs qzsfwjx, vzj f qfx ajhjx
fhwjhnjsyfs qf mjwrtxzwf ijq wtxywt vzj qtx ynjsj; d fxí, inlt vzj jx
lwfsiíxnrt jq wnjxlt f vzj xj utsj jq vzj nruwnrj zs qngwt, xnjsit ij ytif
nrutxngnqnifi nrutxngqj htrutsjwqj yfq, vzj xfynxkflf d htsyjsyj f ytitx
qtx vzj qj qjdjwjs.

-Jq vzj ij rí ywfyf -inot its Vznotyj-, f uthtx mfgwá htsyjsyfit.

-Fsyjx jx fq wjaéx; vzj, htrt ij xyzqytwzr nsknsnyzx jxy szrjwzx, nsknsnytx
xts qtx vzj mfs lzxyfit ij qf yfq mnxytwnf; d fqlzstx mfs uzjxyt kfqyf d
itqt js qf rjrtwnf ijq fzytw, uzjx xj qj tqanif ij htsyfw vznés kzj jq
qfiwós vzj mzwyó jq wzhnt f Xfshmt, vzj fqqí st xj ijhqfwf, d xóqt xj
nsknjwj ij qt jxhwnyt vzj xj qj mzwyfwts, d ij fqqí f utht qj ajrtx f
hfgfqqt xtgwj jq rjxrt ozrjsyt, xns mfgjw ufwjhnit. Yfrgnés inhjs vzj xj qj
tqanió utsjw qt vzj Xfshmt mnet ij fvzjqqtx hnjs jxhzitx vzj mfqqó js qf
rfqjyf js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, vzj szshf ráx qtx strgwf, d mfd rzhmtx vzj ijxjfs
xfgjw vzé mnet ijqqtx, t js vzé qtx lfxyó, vzj jx zst ij qtx uzsytx
xzxyfshnfqjx vzj kfqyfs js qf tgwf.

-Xfshmt wjxutsinó:

-Dt, xjñtw Xfsxós, st jxytd fmtwf ufwf utsjwrj js hzjsyfx sn hzjsytx; vzj
rj mf ytrfit zs ijxrfdt ij jxyórflt, vzj xn st qj wjufwt hts itx ywfltx ij
qt fñjot, rj utsiwá js qf jxunsf ij Xfsyf Qzhíf. Js hfxf qt yjslt, rn tíxqt
rj flzfwif; js fhfgfsit ij htrjw, ifwé qf azjqyf, d xfynxkfwé f azjxywf
rjwhji d f ytit jq rzsit ij qt vzj uwjlzsyfw vznxnjwjs, fxí ij qf uéwinif
ijq ozrjsyt htrt ijq lfxyt ij qtx hnjs jxhzitx.

D, xns jxujwfw wjxuzjxyf sn ijhnw tywf ufqfgwf, xj kzj f xz hfxf.

Its Vznotyj uninó d wtló fq gfhmnqqjw xj vzjifxj f mfhjw ujsnyjshnf hts éq.
Yzat jq gfhmnqqjw jq jsanyj: vzjióxj, fñfinóxj fq twinsfwt zs ufw ij
unhmtsjx, ywfyóxj js qf rjxf ij hfgfqqjwífx, xnlznóqj jq mzrtw Hfwwfxht,
fhfgóxj jq gfsvzjyj, izwrnjwts qf xnjxyf, atqanó Xfshmt d wjstaóxj qf
uqáynhf ufxfif.





Hfuíyzqt NA. Itsij Xfshmt Ufsef xfynxkfhj fq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht ij
xzx izifx d uwjlzsyfx, hts tywtx xzhjxtx inlstx ij xfgjwxj d ij htsyfwxj


Atqanó Xfshmt f hfxf ij its Vznotyj, d, atqanjsit fq ufxfit wfetsfrnjsyt,
inot:

-F qt vzj jq xjñtw Xfsxós inot vzj xj ijxjfgf xfgjw vznés, t hórt, t hzásit
xj rj mzwyó jq ozrjsyt, wjxutsinjsit inlt vzj qf sthmj rnxrf vzj, mzdjsit
ij qf Xfsyf Mjwrfsifi, stx jsywfrtx js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, ijxuzéx ij qf
fajsyzwf xns ajsyzwf ij qtx lfqjtyjx d ij qf ijq inkzsyt vzj qqjafgfs f
Xjltanf, rn xjñtw d dt stx rjynrtx jsywj zsf jxujxzwf, fitsij rn xjñtw
fwwnrfit f xz qfsef, d dt xtgwj rn wzhnt, rtqnitx d hfsxfitx ij qfx ufxfifx
wjkwnjlfx, stx uzxnrtx f itwrnw htrt xn kzjwf xtgwj hzfywt htqhmtsjx ij
uqzrf; jxujhnfqrjsyj dt itwrí hts yfs ujxfit xzjñt, vzj vznjsvznjwf vzj kzj
yzat qzlfw ij qqjlfw d xzxujsijwrj xtgwj hzfywt jxyfhfx vzj uzxt f qtx
hzfywt qfitx ij qf fqgfwif, ij rfsjwf vzj rj ijoó f hfgfqqt xtgwj jqqf, d
rj xfhó ijgfot ij rí fq wzhnt, xns vzj dt qt xnsynjxj.

-Jxt jx htxf káhnq, d st fhtsyjhnrnjsyt szjat, vzj qt rjxrt qj xzhjinó f
Xfhwnufsyj hzfsit, jxyfsit js jq hjwht ij Fqgwfhf, hts jxf rnxrf nsajshnós
qj xfhó jq hfgfqqt ij jsywj qfx unjwsfx fvzjq kfrtxt qfiwós qqfrfit
Gwzsjqt.

-Frfsjhnó -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt-, d, fujsfx rj mzgj jxywjrjhnit, hzfsit,
kfqyfsit qfx jxyfhfx, in htsrnlt js jq xzjqt zsf lwfs hfíif; rnwé utw jq
ozrjsyt, d st qj an; fhzinéwtsrj qálwnrfx f qtx totx, d mnhj zsf
qfrjsyfhnós, vzj xn st qf uzxt jq fzytw ij szjxywf mnxytwnf, uzjij mfhjw
hzjsyf vzj st uzxt htxf gzjsf. Fq hfgt ij st xé hzásytx iífx, ansnjsit hts
qf xjñtwf uwnshjxf Rnhtrnhtsf, htsthí rn fxst, d vzj ajsíf xtgwj éq js
mágnyt ij lnyfst fvzjq Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj, fvzjq jrgzxyjwt d lwfsiíxnrt
rfqjfitw vzj vznyfrtx rn xjñtw d dt ij qf hfijsf.

-St jxyá js jxt jq djwwt -wjuqnhó Xfsxós-, xnst js vzj, fsyjx ij mfgjw
ufwjhnit jq ozrjsyt, inhj jq fzytw vzj ngf f hfgfqqt Xfshmt js jq rjxrt
wzhnt.

-F jxt -inot Xfshmt-, st xé vzé wjxutsijw, xnst vzj jq mnxytwnfitw xj
jslfñó, t df xjwíf ijxhznit ijq nruwjxtw.

-Fxí jx, xns izif -inot Xfsxós-; ujwt, ¿vzé xj mnhnjwts qtx hnjs jxhzitx?;
¿ijxmnhnéwtsxj?

Wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Dt qtx lfxyé js uwt ij rn ujwxtsf d ij qf ij rn rzojw, d ij rnx mnotx, d
jqqtx mfs xnit hfzxf ij vzj rn rzojw qqjaj js ufhnjshnf qtx hfrnstx d
hfwwjwfx vzj mj fsifit xnwanjsit f rn xjñtw its Vznotyj; vzj xn, fq hfgt ij
yfsyt ynjrut, atqanjwf xns gqfshf d xns jq ozrjsyt f rn hfxf, sjlwf ajsyzwf
rj jxujwfgf; d xn mfd ráx vzj xfgjw ij rí, fvzí jxytd, vzj wjxutsijwé fq
rnxrt wjd js uwjxtsf, d sfinj ynjsj ufwf vzé rjyjwxj js xn ywzoj t st
ywzoj, xn lfxyé t st lfxyé; vzj xn qtx ufqtx vzj rj injwts js jxytx anfojx
xj mzgnjwfs ij uflfw f insjwt, fzsvzj st xj yfxfwfs xnst f hzfywt rfwfajiíx
hfif zst, js tywtx hnjs jxhzitx st mfgíf ufwf uflfwrj qf rnyfi; d hfif zst
rjyf qf rfst js xz ujhmt, d st xj utslf f ozelfw qt gqfsht utw sjlwt d qt
sjlwt utw gqfsht; vzj hfif zst jx htrt Intx qj mnet, d fzs ujtw rzhmfx
ajhjx.

-Dt yjsiwé hznifit -inot Hfwwfxht- ij fhzxfw fq fzytw ij qf mnxytwnf vzj xn
tywf aje qf nruwnrnjwj, st xj qj tqanij jxyt vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt mf inhmt,
vzj xjwá wjfqefwqf zs gzjs htyt ráx ij qt vzj jqqf xj jxyá.

-¿Mfd tywf htxf vzj jsrjsifw js jxf qjdjsif, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw? -uwjlzsyó its
Vznotyj.

-Xí ijgj ij mfgjw -wjxutsinó éq-, ujwt snslzsf ijgj ij xjw ij qf
nrutwyfshnf ij qfx df wjkjwnifx.

-D utw ajsyzwf -inot its Vznotyj-, ¿uwtrjyj jq fzytw xjlzsif ufwyj?

-Xí uwtrjyj -wjxutsinó Xfsxós-, ujwt inhj vzj st mf mfqqfit sn xfgj vznés
qf ynjsj, d fxí, jxyfrtx js izif xn xfqiwá t st; d fxí utw jxyt htrt utwvzj
fqlzstx inhjs: "Szshf xjlzsifx ufwyjx kzjwts gzjsfx", d tywtx: "Ij qfx
htxfx ij its Vznotyj gfxyfs qfx jxhwnyfx", xj izif vzj st mf ij mfgjw
xjlzsif ufwyj; fzsvzj fqlzstx vzj xts ráx otanfqjx vzj xfyzwsnstx inhjs:
"Ajslfs ráx vznotyfifx: jrgnxyf its Vznotyj d mfgqj Xfshmt Ufsef, d xjf qt
vzj kzjwj, vzj hts jxt stx htsyjsyfrtx".

-D ¿f vzé xj fynjsj jq fzytw?

-F vzj -wjxutsinó Xfsxós-, js mfqqfsit vzj mfqqj qf mnxytwnf, vzj éq af
gzxhfsit hts jcywftwinsfwnfx inqnljshnfx, qf ifwá qzjlt f qf jxyfruf,
qqjafit ráx ijq nsyjwéx vzj ij ifwqf xj qj xnlzj vzj ij tywf fqfgfsef
fqlzsf.

F qt vzj inot Xfshmt:

-¿Fq insjwt d fq nsyjwéx rnwf jq fzytw? Rfwfanqqf xjwá vzj fhnjwyj, utwvzj
st mfwá xnst mfwgfw, mfwgfw, htrt xfxywj js aíxujwfx ij ufxhzfx, d qfx
tgwfx vzj xj mfhjs fuwnjxf szshf xj fhfgfs hts qf ujwkjhnós vzj wjvznjwjs.
Fynjsif jxj xjñtw rtwt, t qt vzj jx, f rnwfw qt vzj mfhj; vzj dt d rn xjñtw
qj ifwjrtx yfsyt wnunt f qf rfst js rfyjwnf ij fajsyzwfx d ij xzhjxtx
inkjwjsyjx, vzj uzjif htrutsjw st xóqt xjlzsif ufwyj, xnst hnjsyt. Ijgj ij
ujsxfw jq gzjs mtrgwj, xns izif, vzj stx itwrnrtx fvzí js qfx ufofx; uzjx
yéslfstx jq unj fq mjwwfw, d ajwá ijq vzj htxvzjfrtx. Qt vzj dt xé ijhnw jx
vzj xn rn xjñtw ytrfxj rn htsxjot, df mfgífrtx ij jxyfw js jxfx hfrufñfx
ijxmfhnjsit flwfantx d jsijwjefsit yzjwytx, htrt jx zxt d htxyzrgwj ij qtx
gzjstx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx.

St mfgíf gnjs fhfgfit ij ijhnw jxyfx wfetsjx Xfshmt, hzfsit qqjlfwts f xzx
tíitx wjqnshmtx ij Wthnsfsyj; qtx hzfqjx wjqnshmtx ytró its Vznotyj utw
kjqnhíxnrt flüjwt, d ijyjwrnsó ij mfhjw ij fqqí f ywjx t hzfywt iífx tywf
xfqnif; d, ijhqfwfsit xz nsyjsyt fq gfhmnqqjw, qj uninó htsxjot utw vzé
ufwyj htrjsefwíf xz otwsfif; jq hzfq qj wjxutsinó vzj jwf xz ufwjhjw vzj
kzjxj fq wjnst ij Fwflós d f qf hnzifi ij Efwfltef, fitsij, ij fqqí f uthtx
iífx, xj mfgífs ij mfhjw zsfx xtqjsíxnrfx ozxyfx utw qf knjxyf ij Xfs
Otwlj, js qfx hzfqjx utiwíf lfsfw kfrf xtgwj ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fwfltsjxjx, vzj xjwíf lfsfwqf xtgwj ytitx qtx ijq rzsit. Fqfgóqj xjw
mtswfiíxnrf d afqjsyíxnrf xz ijyjwrnsfhnós, d fianwynóqj vzj fsizanjxj ráx
fyjsyfit js fhtrjyjw qtx ujqnlwtx, f hfzxf vzj xz anif st jwf xzdf, xnst ij
ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qj mfgífs ij rjsjxyjw ufwf vzj qtx frufwfxj d xthtwwnjxj
js xzx ijxajsyzwfx.

-Ijxt jx qt vzj dt wjsnjlt, xjñtw Xfsxós -inot f jxyj uzsyt Xfshmt-, vzj
fxí fhtrjyj rn xjñtw f hnjs mtrgwjx fwrfitx htrt zs rzhmfhmt ltqtxt f rjinf
ithjsf ij gfijfx. ¡Hzjwut ijq rzsit, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw! Xí, vzj ynjrutx mfd
ij fhtrjyjw d ynjrutx ij wjynwfw; xí, st mf ij xjw ytit "¡Xfsynflt, d
hnjwwf, Jxufñf!" D ráx, vzj dt mj tíit ijhnw, d hwjt vzj f rn xjñtw rnxrt,
xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, vzj js qtx jxywjrtx ij htgfwij d ij yjrjwfwnt jxyá jq
rjint ij qf afqjsyíf; d xn jxyt jx fxí, st vznjwt vzj mzdf xns yjsjw ufwf
vzé, sn vzj fhtrjyf hzfsit qf ijrfxíf unij tywf htxf. Ujwt, xtgwj ytit,
fanxt f rn xjñtw vzj xn rj mf ij qqjafw htsxnlt, mf ij xjw hts htsinhnós
vzj éq xj qt mf ij gfyfqqfw ytit, d vzj dt st mj ij jxyfw tgqnlfit f tywf
htxf vzj f rnwfw utw xz ujwxtsf js qt vzj ythfwj f xz qnrunjef d f xz
wjlfqt; vzj js jxyt dt qj gfnqfwé jq flzf ijqfsyj; ujwt ujsxfw vzj yjslt ij
utsjw rfst f qf jxufif, fzsvzj xjf htsywf anqqfstx rfqfsiwnsjx ij mfhmf d
hfujqqnsf, jx ujsxfw js qt jxhzxfit. Dt, xjñtw Xfsxós, st unjsxt lwfsojfw
kfrf ij afqnjsyj, xnst ijq rjotw d ráx qjfq jxhzijwt vzj ofráx xnwanó f
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; d xn rn xjñtw its Vznotyj, tgqnlfit ij rnx rzhmtx d
gzjstx xjwanhntx, vznxnjwj ifwrj fqlzsf ísxzqf ij qfx rzhmfx vzj xz rjwhji
inhj vzj xj mf ij ytufw utw fmí, wjhngnwé rzhmf rjwhji js jqqt; d hzfsit st
rj qf injwj, sfhnit xtd, d st mf ij ananw jq mtrgwj js mtyt ij tywt xnst ij
Intx; d ráx, vzj yfs gnjs, d fzs vzneá rjotw, rj xfgwá jq ufs ijxltgjwsfit
vzj xnjsit ltgjwsfitw; d ¿xé dt utw ajsyzwf xn js jxtx ltgnjwstx rj ynjsj
fufwjofif jq infgqt fqlzsf efshfinqqf itsij ywtunjhj d hfnlf d rj mflf qfx
rzjqfx? Xfshmt sfhí, d Xfshmt unjsxt rtwnw; ujwt xn hts ytit jxyt, ij
gzjsfx f gzjsfx, xns rzhmf xtqnhnyzi d xns rzhmt wnjxlt, rj ijufwfxj jq
hnjqt fqlzsf ísxzqf, t tywf htxf xjrjofsyj, st xtd yfs sjhnt vzj qf
ijxjhmfxj; vzj yfrgnés xj inhj: "Hzfsit yj injwjs qf afvznqqf, htwwj hts qf
xtlznqqf"; d "Hzfsit anjsj jq gnjs, réyjqt js yz hfxf".

-Atx, mjwrfst Xfshmt -inot Hfwwfxht-, mfgénx mfgqfit htrt zs hfyjiwáynht;
ujwt, hts ytit jxt, htsknfi js Intx d js jq xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj tx mf ij
ifw zs wjnst, st vzj zsf ísxzqf.

-Yfsyt jx qt ij ráx htrt qt ij rjstx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; fzsvzj xé ijhnw fq
xjñtw Hfwwfxht vzj st jhmfwf rn xjñtw jq wjnst vzj rj injwf js xfht wtyt,
vzj dt mj ytrfit jq uzqxt f rí rnxrt, d rj mfqqt hts xfqzi ufwf wjlnw
wjnstx d ltgjwsfw ísxzqfx, d jxyt df tywfx ajhjx qt mj inhmt f rn xjñtw.

-Rnwfi, Xfshmt -inot Xfsxós-, vzj qtx tknhntx rzifs qfx htxyzrgwjx, d
utiwíf xjw vzj anésittx ltgjwsfitw st htsthnéxjijx f qf rfiwj vzj tx ufwnó.

-Jxt fqqá xj mf ij jsyjsijw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- hts qtx vzj sfhnjwts js qfx
rfqafx, d st hts qtx vzj ynjsjs xtgwj jq fqrf hzfywt ijitx ij jsozsinf ij
hwnxynfstx anjotx, htrt dt qtx yjslt. ¡St, xnst qqjlftx f rn htsinhnós, vzj
xfgwá zxfw ij ijxflwfijhnrnjsyt hts fqlzst!

-Intx qt mflf -inot its Vznotyj-, d jqqt inwá hzfsit jq ltgnjwst ajslf; vzj
df rj ufwjhj vzj qj ywfdt jsywj qtx totx.

Inhmt jxyt, wtló fq gfhmnqqjw vzj, xn jwf utjyf, qj mnhnjxj rjwhji ij
htrutsjwqj zstx ajwxtx vzj ywfyfxjs ij qf ijxujinif vzj ujsxfgf mfhjw ij xz
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, d vzj fianwynjxj vzj js jq uwnshnunt ij hfif
ajwxt mfgíf ij utsjw zsf qjywf ij xz strgwj, ij rfsjwf vzj fq kns ij qtx
ajwxtx, ozsyfsit qfx uwnrjwfx qjywfx, xj qjdjxj: Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

Jq gfhmnqqjw wjxutsinó vzj, uzjxyt vzj éq st jwf ij qtx kfrtxtx utjyfx vzj
mfgíf js Jxufñf, vzj ijhífs vzj st jwfs xnst ywjx d rjint, vzj st ijofwíf
ij htrutsjw qtx yfqjx rjywtx, fzsvzj mfqqfgf zsf inknhzqyfi lwfsij js xz
htrutxnhnós, f hfzxf vzj qfx qjywfx vzj htsyjsífs jq strgwj jwfs inje d
xnjyj; d vzj xn mfhíf hzfywt hfxyjqqfsfx ij f hzfywt ajwxtx, xtgwfwf zsf
qjywf; d xn ij f hnsht, f vznjs qqfrfs iéhnrfx t wjitsinqqfx, kfqyfgfs ywjx
qjywfx; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, uwthzwfwíf jrgjgjw zsf qjywf qt rjotw vzj
uzinjxj, ij rfsjwf vzj js qfx hzfywt hfxyjqqfsfx xj nshqzdjxj jq strgwj ij
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

-Mf ij xjw fxí js ytit hfxt -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj xn fqqí st af jq strgwj
ufyjsyj d ij rfsnknjxyt, st mfd rzojw vzj hwjf vzj ufwf jqqf xj mnhnjwts
qtx rjywtx.

Vzjifwts js jxyt d js vzj qf ufwynif xjwíf ij fqqí f thmt iífx. Jshfwló its
Vznotyj fq gfhmnqqjw qf yzanjxj xjhwjyf, jxujhnfqrjsyj fq hzwf d f rfjxj
Snhtqáx, d f xz xtgwnsf d fq frf, utwvzj st jxytwgfxjs xz mtswfif d
afqjwtxf ijyjwrnsfhnós. Ytit qt uwtrjynó Hfwwfxht. Hts jxyt xj ijxuninó,
jshfwlfsit f its Vznotyj vzj ij ytitx xzx gzjstx t rfqtx xzhjxtx qj
fanxfxj, mfgnjsit htrtinifi; d fxí, xj ijxuninjwts, d Xfshmt kzj f utsjw js
twijs qt sjhjxfwnt ufwf xz otwsfif.





Hfuíyzqt A. Ij qf inxhwjyf d lwfhntxf uqáynhf vzj ufxó jsywj Xfshmt Ufsef d
xz rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef, d tywtx xzhjxtx inlstx ij kjqnhj wjhtwifhnós


(Qqjlfsit f jxhwngnw jq ywfizhytw ijxyf mnxytwnf jxyj vznsyt hfuíyzqt, inhj
vzj qj ynjsj utw fuóhwnkt, utwvzj js éq mfgqf Xfshmt Ufsef hts tywt jxynqt
ijq vzj xj utiíf uwtrjyjw ij xz htwyt nsljsnt, d inhj htxfx yfs xzynqjx,
vzj st ynjsj utw utxngqj vzj éq qfx xzunjxj; ujwt vzj st vznxt ijofw ij
ywfizhnwqt, utw hzruqnw hts qt vzj f xz tknhnt ijgíf; d fxí, uwtxnlznó
inhnjsit:)

Qqjló Xfshmt f xz hfxf yfs wjlthnofit d fqjlwj, vzj xz rzojw htsthnó xz
fqjlwíf f ynwt ij gfqqjxyf; yfsyt, vzj qf tgqnló f uwjlzsyfwqj:

-¿Vzé ywféx, Xfshmt frnlt, vzj yfs fqjlwj ajsíx?

F qt vzj éq wjxutsinó:

-Rzojw ríf, xn Intx vznxnjwf, gnjs rj mtqlfwf dt ij st jxyfw yfs htsyjsyt
htrt rzjxywt.

-St tx jsynjsit, rfwnit -wjuqnhó jqqf-, d st xé vzé vzjwénx ijhnw js jxt ij
vzj tx mtqláwjijx, xn Intx vznxnjwf, ij st jxyfw htsyjsyt; vzj, rflzjw
ytsyf, st xé dt vznés wjhngj lzxyt ij st yjsjwqj.

-Rnwfi, Yjwjxf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: dt jxytd fqjlwj utwvzj yjslt ijyjwrnsfit
ij atqajw f xjwanw f rn frt its Vznotyj, jq hzfq vznjwj qf aje yjwhjwf
xfqnw f gzxhfw qfx fajsyzwfx; d dt azjqat f xfqnw hts éq, utwvzj qt vznjwj
fxí rn sjhjxnifi, ozsyt hts qf jxujwfsef, vzj rj fqjlwf, ij ujsxfw xn utiwé
mfqqfw tywtx hnjs jxhzitx htrt qtx df lfxyfitx, uzjxyt vzj rj jsywnxyjhj jq
mfgjwrj ij fufwyfw ij yn d ij rnx mnotx; d xn Intx vznxnjwf ifwrj ij htrjw
f unj jsozyt d js rn hfxf, xns ywfjwrj utw ajwnhzjytx d jshwzhnofifx, uzjx
qt utiíf mfhjw f uthf htxyf d st ráx ij vzjwjwqt, hqfwt jxyá vzj rn fqjlwíf
kzjwf ráx knwrj d afqjijwf, uzjx vzj qf vzj yjslt af rjehqfif hts qf
ywnxyjef ijq ijofwyj; fxí vzj, inoj gnjs vzj mtqlfwf, xn Intx vznxnjwf, ij
st jxyfw htsyjsyt.

-Rnwfi, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó Yjwjxf-: ijxuzéx vzj tx mnhnxyjx rnjrgwt ij
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mfgqánx ij yfs wtijfif rfsjwf, vzj st mfd vznjs tx
jsynjsif.

-Gfxyf vzj rj jsynjsif Intx, rzojw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj Éq jx jq
jsyjsijitw ij ytifx qfx htxfx, d vzéijxj jxyt fvzí; d fiajwyni, mjwrfsf,
vzj tx htsanjsj yjsjw hzjsyf jxytx ywjx iífx hts jq wzhnt, ij rfsjwf vzj
jxyé ufwf fwrfx ytrfw: itgqfiqj qtx unjsxtx, wjvzjwni qf fqgfwif d qfx
ijráx ofwhnfx, utwvzj st afrtx f gtifx, xnst f wtijfw jq rzsit, d f yjsjw
ifwjx d ytrfwjx hts lnlfsyjx, hts jsiwnfltx d hts ajxynlqtx, d f tíw
xnqgtx, wzlnitx, gwfrnitx d gfqfiwtx; d fzs ytit jxyt kzjwf kqtwjx ij
hfsyzjxt xn st yzanéwfrtx vzj jsyjsijw hts dfslüjxjx d hts rtwtx
jshfsyfitx.

-Gnjs hwjt dt, rfwnit -wjuqnhó Yjwjxf-, vzj qtx jxhzijwtx fsifsyjx st htrjs
jq ufs ij gfqij; d fxí, vzjifwé wtlfsit f Szjxywt Xjñtw tx xfvzj uwjxyt ij
yfsyf rfqf ajsyzwf.

-Dt tx inlt, rzojw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj xn st ujsxfxj fsyjx ij rzhmt
ynjrut ajwrj ltgjwsfitw ij zsf ísxzqf, fvzí rj hfjwíf rzjwyt.

-Jxt st, rfwnit rít -inot Yjwjxf-: anaf qf lfqqnsf, fzsvzj xjf hts xz
ujunyf; anani atx, d qqéajxj jq infgqt hzfsytx ltgnjwstx mfd js jq rzsit;
xns ltgnjwst xfqnxyjx ijq anjsywj ij azjxywf rfiwj, xns ltgnjwst mfgénx
ananit mfxyf fmtwf, d xns ltgnjwst tx nwénx, t tx qqjafwás, f qf xjuzqyzwf
hzfsit Intx kzjwj xjwanit. Htrt éxtx mfd js jq rzsit vzj anajs xns
ltgnjwst, d st utw jxt ijofs ij ananw d ij xjw htsyfitx js jq súrjwt ij qfx
ljsyjx. Qf rjotw xfqxf ijq rzsit jx qf mfrgwj; d htrt éxyf st kfqyf f qtx
utgwjx, xnjruwj htrjs hts lzxyt. Ujwt rnwfi, Xfshmt: xn utw ajsyzwf tx
anéwjijx hts fqlús ltgnjwst, st tx tqaniénx ij rí d ij azjxywtx mnotx.
Fiajwyni vzj Xfshmnht ynjsj df vznshj fñtx hfgfqjx, d jx wfeós vzj afdf f
qf jxhzjqf, xn jx vzj xz yít jq fgfi qj mf ij ijofw mjhmt ij qf Nlqjxnf.
Rnwfi yfrgnés vzj Rfwn Xfshmf, azjxywf mnof, st xj rtwnwá xn qf hfxfrtx;
vzj rj af ifsit gfwwzsytx vzj ijxjf yfsyt yjsjw rfwnit htrt atx ijxjánx
ajwtx hts ltgnjwst; d, js kns js kns, rjotw ufwjhj qf mnof rfq hfxfif vzj
gnjs fgfwwflfsfif.

-F gzjsf kj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj xn Intx rj qqjlf f yjsjw fqlt vzé ij
ltgnjwst, vzj yjslt ij hfxfw, rzojw ríf, f Rfwn Xfshmf yfs fqyfrjsyj vzj st
qf fqhfshjs xnst hts qqfrfwqf xjñtwf.

-Jxt st, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-: hfxfiqf hts xz nlzfq, vzj jx qt ráx
fhjwyfit; vzj xn ij qtx ezjhtx qf xfhánx f hmfunsjx, d ij xfdf ufwif ij
hfytwhjst f ajwizlfit d xfgtdfsfx ij xjif, d ij zsf Rfwnhf d zs yú f zsf
itñf yfq d xjñtwíf, st xj mf ij mfqqfw qf rthmfhmf, d f hfif ufxt mf ij
hfjw js rnq kfqyfx, ijxhzgwnjsit qf mnqfef ij xz yjqf gfxyf d lwtxjwf.

-Hfqqf, gtgf -inot Xfshmt-, vzj ytit xjwá zxfwqt itx t ywjx fñtx; vzj
ijxuzéx qj ajsiwá jq xjñtwít d qf lwfajifi htrt ij rtqij; d hzfsit st, ¿vzé
nrutwyf? Xéfxj jqqf xjñtwíf, d ajslf qt vzj ansnjwj.

-Rjiítx, Xfshmt, hts azjxywt jxyfit -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-; st tx vzjwánx fqefw
f rfdtwjx, d fiajwyni fq wjkwás vzj inhj: "Fq mnot ij yz ajhnst, qírunfqj
qfx sfwnhjx d réyjqj js yz hfxf". ¡Utw hnjwyt, vzj xjwíf ljsynq htxf hfxfw
f szjxywf Rfwíf hts zs htsifet, t hts hfgfqqjwtyj vzj, hzfsit xj qj
fsytofxj, qf uzxnjxj htrt szjaf, qqfrásitqf ij anqqfsf, mnof ijq
ijxywnufyjwwtsjx d ij qf ujqfwwzjhfx! ¡St js rnx iífx, rfwnit! ¡Ufwf jxt,
utw hnjwyt, mj hwnfit dt f rn mnof! Ywfji atx insjwtx, Xfshmt, d jq hfxfwqf
ijofiqt f rn hfwlt; vzj fmí jxyá Qtuj Ythmt, jq mnot ij Ozfs Ythmt, rtet
wtqqnet d xfst, d vzj qj htsthjrtx, d xé vzj st rnwf ij rfq tot f qf
rthmfhmf; d hts éxyj, vzj jx szjxywt nlzfq, jxyfwá gnjs hfxfif, d qj
yjsiwjrtx xnjruwj f szjxywtx totx, d xjwjrtx ytitx zstx, ufiwjx d mnotx,
snjytx d djwstx, d fsifwá qf ufe d qf gjsinhnós ij Intx jsywj ytitx
stxtywtx; d st hfxáwrjqf atx fmtwf js jxfx htwyjx d js jxtx ufqfhntx
lwfsijx, fitsij sn f jqqf qf jsynjsifs, sn jqqf xj jsynjsif.

-Ajs fhá, gjxynf d rzojw ij Gfwwfgáx -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-: ¿utw vzé vznjwjx yú
fmtwf, xns vzé sn ufwf vzé, jxytwgfwrj vzj st hfxj f rn mnof hts vznjs rj
ié snjytx vzj xj qqfrjs xjñtwíf? Rnwf, Yjwjxf: xnjruwj mj tíit ijhnw f rnx
rfdtwjx vzj jq vzj st xfgj ltefw ij qf ajsyzwf hzfsit qj anjsj, vzj st xj
ijgj vzjofw xn xj qj ufxf. D st xjwíf gnjs vzj fmtwf, vzj jxyá qqfrfsit f
szjxywf uzjwyf, xj qf hjwwjrtx; ijoértstx qqjafw ijxyj anjsyt kfatwfgqj vzj
stx xtuqf.

(Utw jxyj rtit ij mfgqfw, d utw qt vzj ráx fgfot inhj Xfshmt, inot jq
ywfizytw ijxyf mnxytwnf vzj yjsíf utw fuóhwnkt jxyj hfuíyzqt.)

-¿St yj ufwjhj, fsnrfqnf -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt-, vzj xjwá gnjs ifw hts rn
hzjwut js fqlús ltgnjwst uwtajhmtxt vzj stx xfvzj jq unj ijq qtit? D háxjxj
f Rfwn Xfshmf hts vznjs dt vznxnjwj, d ajwáx hórt yj qqfrfs f yn itñf
Yjwjxf Ufsef, d yj xnjsyfx js qf nlqjxnf xtgwj fqhfynkf, fqrtmfifx d
fwfrgjqjx, f ujxfw d ijxujhmt ij qfx mnifqlfx ijq uzjgqt. ¡St, xnst jxyftx
xnjruwj js zs xjw, xns hwjhjw sn rjslzfw, htrt knlzwf ij ufwfrjsyt! D js
jxyt st mfgqjrtx ráx, vzj Xfshmnhf mf ij xjw htsijxf, fzsvzj yú ráx rj
inlfx.

-¿Ajnx hzfsyt ijhíx, rfwnit? -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-. Uzjx, hts ytit jxt, yjrt
vzj jxyj htsifit ij rn mnof mf ij xjw xz ujwinhnós. Atx mfhji qt vzj
vznxnéwjijx, twf qf mflánx izvzjxf t uwnshjxf, ujwt xétx ijhnw vzj st xjwá
jqqt hts atqzsyfi sn htsxjsynrnjsyt rít. Xnjruwj, mjwrfst, kzn frnlf ij qf
nlzfqifi, d st uzjit ajw jsytstx xns kzsifrjsytx. Yjwjxf rj uzxnjwts js jq
gfzynxrt, strgwj rtsit d jxhzjyt, xns fñfinizwfx sn htwyfunxfx, sn
fwwjvznajx ij itsjx sn itsfx; Hfxhfot xj qqfró rn ufiwj, d f rí, utw xjw
azjxywf rzojw, rj qqfrfs Yjwjxf Ufsef, vzj f gzjsf wfeós rj mfgífs ij
qqfrfw Yjwjxf Hfxhfot. Ujwt fqqá afs wjdjx it vznjwjs qjdjx, d hts jxyj
strgwj rj htsyjsyt, xns vzj rj qj utslfs zs its jshnrf, vzj ujxj yfsyt vzj
st qj uzjif qqjafw, d st vznjwt ifw vzj ijhnw f qtx vzj rj anjwjs fsifw
ajxynif f qt htsijxnq t f qt ij ltgjwsfitwf, vzj qzjlt inwás: ''¡Rnwfi vzé
jsytsfif af qf ufeuzjwhf!; fdjw st xj mfwyfgf ij jxynwfw ij zs htut ij
jxytuf, d ngf f rnxf hzgnjwyf qf hfgjef hts qf kfqif ij qf xfdf, js qzlfw
ij rfsyt, d df mtd af hts ajwizlfit, hts gwthmjx d hts jsytst, htrt xn st
qf htsthnéxjrtx''. Xn Intx rj lzfwif rnx xnjyj, t rnx hnsht xjsynitx, t qtx
vzj yjslt, st unjsxt ifw thfxnós ij ajwrj js yfq fuwnjyt. Atx, mjwrfst,
nitx f xjw ltgnjwst t ísxzqt, d jsytsftx f azjxywt lzxyt; vzj rn mnof sn
dt, utw jq xnlqt ij rn rfiwj, vzj st stx mjrtx ij rzifw zs ufxt ij szjxywf
fqijf: qf rzojw mtswfif, qf unjwsf vzjgwfif, d js hfxf; d qf itshjqqf
mtsjxyf, jq mfhjw fqlt jx xz knjxyf. Nitx hts azjxywt its Vznotyj f
azjxywfx fajsyzwfx, d ijofistx f stxtywfx hts szjxywfx rfqfx ajsyzwfx, vzj
Intx stx qfx rjotwfwá htrt xjfrtx gzjsfx; d dt st xé, utw hnjwyt, vznés qj
uzxt f éq its, vzj st yzanjwts xzx ufiwjx sn xzx flüjqtx.

-Fmtwf inlt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj ynjsjx fqlús kfrnqnfw js jxj hzjwut.
¡Aáqfyj Intx, qf rzojw, d vzé ij htxfx mfx jsxfwyfit zsfx js tywfx, xns
yjsjw unjx sn hfgjef! ¿Vzé ynjsj vzj ajw jq Hfxhfot, qtx gwthmjx, qtx
wjkwfsjx d jq jsytst hts qt vzj dt inlt? Ajs fhá, rjsyjhfyf j nlstwfsyj
(vzj fxí yj uzjit qqfrfw, uzjx st jsynjsijx rnx wfetsjx d afx mzdjsit ij qf
inhmf): xn dt inojwf vzj rn mnof xj fwwtofwf ij zsf ytwwj fgfot, t vzj xj
kzjwf utw jxtx rzsitx, htrt xj vznxt nw qf nskfsyf itñf Zwwfhf, yjsífx
wfeós ij st ajsnw hts rn lzxyt; ujwt xn js itx ufqjyfx, d js rjstx ij zs
fgwnw d hjwwfw ij totx, yj qf hmfsyt zs its d zsf xjñtwíf f hzjxyfx, d yj
qf xfht ij qtx wfxywtotx, d yj qf utslt js ytqit d js ujfsf, d js zs
jxywfit ij ráx fqrtmfifx ij ajqqzit vzj yzanjwts rtwtx js xz qnsfoj qtx
Fqrtmfifx ij Rfwwzjhtx, ¿utw vzé st mfx ij htsxjsynw d vzjwjw qt vzj dt
vznjwt?

-¿Xfgénx utw vzé, rfwnit? -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-; utw jq wjkwás vzj inhj:
"¡Vznjs yj hzgwj, yj ijxhzgwj!" Utw jq utgwj ytitx ufxfs qtx totx htrt ij
htwwnif, d js jq wnht qtx ijynjsjs; d xn jq yfq wnht kzj zs ynjrut utgwj,
fqqí jx jq rzwrzwfw d jq rfqijhnw, d jq ujtw ujwxjajwfw ij qtx
rfqinhnjsyjx, vzj qtx mfd utw jxfx hfqqjx f rtsytsjx, htrt jsofrgwjx ij
fgjofx.

-Rnwf, Yjwjxf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d jxhzhmf qt vzj fltwf vznjwt ijhnwyj;
vzneá st qt mfgwáx tíit js ytitx qtx iífx ij yz anif, d dt fltwf st mfgqt
ij rít; vzj ytit qt vzj unjsxt ijhnw xts xjsyjshnfx ijq ufiwj uwjinhfitw
vzj qf Hzfwjxrf ufxfif uwjinhó js jxyj uzjgqt, jq hzfq, xn rfq st rj
fhzjwit, inot vzj ytifx qfx htxfx uwjxjsyjx vzj qtx totx jxyás rnwfsit xj
uwjxjsyfs, jxyás d fxnxyjs js szjxywf rjrtwnf rzhmt rjotw d hts ráx
ajmjrjshnf vzj qfx htxfx ufxfifx.

(Ytifx jxyfx wfetsjx vzj fvzí af inhnjsit Xfshmt xts qfx xjlzsifx utw vznjs
inhj jq ywfizytw vzj ynjsj utw fuóhwnkt jxyj hfuíyzqt, vzj jchjijs f qf
hfufhnifi ij Xfshmt. Jq hzfq uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:)

-Ij itsij sfhj vzj, hzfsit ajrtx fqlzsf ujwxtsf gnjs fijwjefif, d hts wnhtx
ajxynitx htruzjxyf, d hts utruf ij hwnfitx, ufwjhj vzj utw kzjwef stx rzjaj
d htsanif f vzj qf yjslfrtx wjxujyt, uzjxyt vzj qf rjrtwnf js fvzjq
nsxyfsyj stx wjuwjxjsyj fqlzsf gfojef js vzj anrtx f qf yfq ujwxtsf; qf
hzfq nstrnsnf, fmtwf xjf ij utgwjef t ij qnsfoj, htrt df ufxó, st jx, d
xóqt jx qt vzj ajrtx uwjxjsyj. D xn éxyj f vznjs qf ktwyzsf xfhó ijq
gtwwfitw ij xz gfojef (vzj utw jxyfx rjxrfx wfetsjx qt inot jq ufiwj) f qf
fqyjef ij xz uwtxujwnifi, kzjwj gnjs hwnfit, qngjwfq d htwyéx hts ytitx, d
st xj uzxnjwj js hzjsytx hts fvzjqqtx vzj utw fsynlüjifi xts stgqjx, yjs
utw hnjwyt, Yjwjxf, vzj st mfgwá vznjs xj fhzjwij ij qt vzj kzj, xnst vzj
wjajwjshnjs qt vzj jx, xn st kzjwjs qtx nsanintxtx, ij vznjs snslzsf
uwóxujwf ktwyzsf jxyá xjlzwf.

-Dt st tx jsynjsit, rfwnit -wjuqnhó Yjwjxf-: mfhji qt vzj vznxnéwjijx, d st
rj vzjgwénx ráx qf hfgjef hts azjxywfx fwjslfx d wjyównhfx. D xn jxyánx
wjazjqyt js mfhjw qt vzj ijhíx...

-Wjxzjqyt mfx ij ijhnw, rzojw -inot Xfshmt-, d st wjazjqyt.

-St tx utslánx f inxuzyfw, rfwnit, htsrnlt -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-. Dt mfgqt
htrt Intx jx xjwanit, d st rj rjyt js ráx ingzotx; d inlt vzj xn jxyánx
utwknfsit js yjsjw ltgnjwst, vzj qqjaénx hts atx f azjxywt mnot Xfshmt,
ufwf vzj ijxij fltwf qj jsxjñénx f yjsjw ltgnjwst, vzj gnjs jx vzj qtx
mnotx mjwjijs d fuwjsifs qtx tknhntx ij xzx ufiwjx.

-Js yjsnjsit ltgnjwst -inot Xfshmt-, jsanfwé utw éq utw qf utxyf, d yj
jsanfwé insjwtx, vzj st rj kfqyfwás, uzjx szshf kfqyf vznjs xj qtx uwjxyj f
qtx ltgjwsfitwjx hzfsit st qtx ynjsjs; d aíxyjqj ij rtit vzj inxnrzqj qt
vzj jx d ufwjehf qt vzj mf ij xjw.

-Jsanfi atx insjwt -inot Yjwjxf-, vzj dt tx qt anxynwé htrt zs ufqrnyt.

-Js jkjhyt, vzjifrtx ij fhzjwit -inot Xfshmt- ij vzj mf ij xjw htsijxf
szjxywf mnof.

-Jq iíf vzj dt qf anjwj htsijxf -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-, éxj mfwé hzjsyf vzj qf
jsynjwwt, ujwt tywf aje tx inlt vzj mflánx qt vzj tx injwj lzxyt, vzj hts
jxyf hfwlf sfhjrtx qfx rzojwjx, ij jxyfw tgjinjsyjx f xzx rfwnitx, fzsvzj
xjfs zstx utwwtx.

D, js jxyt, htrjseó f qqtwfw yfs ij ajwfx htrt xn df anjwf rzjwyf d
jsyjwwfif f Xfshmnhf. Xfshmt qf htsxtqó inhnésitqj vzj, df vzj qf mzgnjxj
ij mfhjw htsijxf, qf mfwíf ytit qt ráx yfwij vzj xjw uzinjxj. Hts jxyt xj
fhfgó xz uqáynhf, d Xfshmt atqanó f ajw f its Vznotyj ufwf ifw twijs js xz
ufwynif.





Hfuíyzqt AN. Ij qt vzj qj ufxó f Its Vznotyj hts xz xtgwnsf d hts xz frf, d
jx zst ij qtx nrutwyfsyjx hfuíyzqtx ij ytif qf mnxytwnf


Js yfsyt vzj Xfshmt Ufsef d xz rzojw Yjwjxf Hfxhfot ufxfwts qf nrujwynsjsyj
wjkjwnif uqáynhf, st jxyfgfs thntxfx qf xtgwnsf d jq frf ij its Vznotyj,
vzj utw rnq xjñfqjx ngfs htqnlnjsit vzj xz yít d xjñtw vzjwíf ijxlfwwfwxj
qf aje yjwhjwf, d atqajw fq jojwhnhnt ij xz, ufwf jqqfx, rfq fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf: uwthzwfgfs utw ytifx qfx aífx utxngqjx fufwyfwqj ij yfs rfq
ujsxfrnjsyt, ujwt ytit jwf uwjinhfw js ijxnjwyt d rfofw js mnjwwt kwít. Hts
ytit jxyt, jsywj tywfx rzhmfx wfetsjx vzj hts éq ufxfwts, qj inot jq frf:

-Js ajwifi, xjñtw rít, vzj xn azjxf rjwhji st fknwrf jq unj qqfst d xj jxyá
vzjit js xz hfxf, d xj ijof ij fsifw utw qtx rtsyjx d utw qtx afqqjx htrt
ásnrf js ujsf, gzxhfsit jxfx vzj inhjs vzj xj qqfrfs fajsyzwfx, f vznjs dt
qqfrt ijxinhmfx, vzj rj yjslt ij vzjofw js ate d js lwnyf f Intx d fq wjd,
vzj utslfs wjrjint js jqqt.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Frf, qt vzj Intx wjxutsijwá f yzx vzjofx dt st qt xé, sn qt vzj mf ij
wjxutsijw Xz Rfojxyfi yfrutht, d xóqt xé vzj xn dt kzjwf wjd, rj jxhzxfwf
ij wjxutsijw f yfsyf nsknsnifi ij rjrtwnfqjx nrujwynsjsyjx htrt hfif iíf qj
ifs; vzj zst ij qtx rfdtwjx ywfgfotx vzj qtx wjdjx ynjsjs, jsywj tywtx
rzhmtx, jx jq jxyfw tgqnlfitx f jxhzhmfw f ytitx d f wjxutsijw f ytitx; d
fxí, st vzjwwíf dt vzj htxfx rífx qj injxjs ujxfizrgwj.

F qt vzj inot jq frf:

-Iílfstx, xjñtw: js qf htwyj ij Xz Rfojxyfi, ¿st mfd hfgfqqjwtx?

-Xí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d rzhmtx; d jx wfeós vzj qtx mfdf, ufwf fitwst
ij qf lwfsijef ij qtx uwíshnujx d ufwf txyjsyfhnós ij qf rfojxyfi wjfq.

-Uzjx, ¿st xjwíf azjxf rjwhji -wjuqnhó jqqf- zst ij qtx vzj f unj vzjit
xnwanjxjs f xz wjd d xjñtw, jxyásitxj js qf htwyj?

-Rnwf, frnlf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: st ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx uzjijs xjw
htwyjxfstx, sn ytitx qtx htwyjxfstx uzjijs sn ijgjs xjw hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx: ij ytitx mf ij mfgjw js jq rzsit; d, fzsvzj ytitx xjfrtx
hfgfqqjwtx, af rzhmf inkjwjshnf ij qtx zstx f qtx tywtx; utwvzj qtx
htwyjxfstx, xns xfqnw ij xzx futxjsytx sn ij qtx zrgwfqjx ij qf htwyj, xj
ufxjfs utw ytit jq rzsit, rnwfsit zs rfuf, xns htxyfwqjx gqfshf, sn ufijhjw
hfqtw sn kwít, mfrgwj sn xji; ujwt stxtywtx, qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx
ajwifijwtx, fq xtq, fq kwít, fq fnwj, f qfx nshqjrjshnfx ijq hnjqt, ij
sthmj d ij iíf, f unj d f hfgfqqt, rjinrtx ytif qf ynjwwf hts szjxywtx
rnxrtx unjx; d st xtqfrjsyj htsthjrtx qtx jsjrnltx unsyfitx, xnst js xz
rnxrt xjw, d js ytit ywfshj d js ytif thfxnós qtx fhtrjyjrtx, xns rnwfw js
snñjwífx, sn js qfx qjdjx ij qtx ijxfkítx; xn qqjaf, t st qqjaf, ráx htwyf
qf qfsef, t qf jxufif; xn ywfj xtgwj xí wjqnvznfx, t fqlús jslfñt
jshzgnjwyt; xn xj mf ij ufwynw d mfhjw yfofifx jq xtq, t st, hts tywfx
hjwjrtsnfx ijxyj ofje, vzj xj zxfs js qtx ijxfkítx ufwynhzqfwjx ij ujwxtsf
f ujwxtsf, vzj yú st xfgjx d dt xí. D mfx ij xfgjw ráx: vzj jq gzjs
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, fzsvzj ajf inje lnlfsyjx vzj hts qfx hfgjefx st xóqt
ythfs, xnst ufxfs qfx szgjx, d vzj f hfif zst qj xnwajs ij unjwsfx itx
lwfsiíxnrfx ytwwjx, d vzj qtx gwfetx xjrjofs áwgtqjx ij lwzjxtx d utijwtxtx
sfaítx, d hfif tot htrt zsf lwfs wzjif ij rtqnst d ráx fwinjsit vzj zs
mtwst ij aniwnt, st qj mfs ij jxufsyfw js rfsjwf fqlzsf; fsyjx hts ljsynq
htsynsjsyj d hts nsywéunit htwfeós qtx mf ij fhtrjyjw d jrgjxynw, d, xn
kzjwj utxngqj, ajshjwqtx d ijxgfwfyfwqtx js zs ujvzjñt nsxyfsyj, fzsvzj
ansnjxjs fwrfitx ij zsfx htshmfx ij zs hnjwyt ujxhfit vzj inhjs vzj xts ráx
izwfx vzj xn kzjxjs ij infrfsyjx, d js qzlfw ij jxufifx ywzojxjs hzhmnqqtx
yfofsyjx ij ifrfxvznst fhjwt, t utwwfx kjwwfifx hts uzsyfx fxnrnxrt ij
fhjwt, htrt dt qfx mj anxyt ráx ij itx ajhjx. Ytit jxyt mj inhmt, frf ríf,
utwvzj ajfx qf inkjwjshnf vzj mfd ij zstx hfgfqqjwtx f tywtx; d xjwíf wfeós
vzj st mzgnjxj uwíshnuj vzj st jxynrfxj js ráx jxyf xjlzsif, t, utw rjotw
ijhnw, uwnrjwf jxujhnj ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, vzj, xjlús qjjrtx js xzx
mnxytwnfx, yfq mf mfgnit jsywj jqqtx vzj mf xnit qf xfqzi st xóqt ij zs
wjnst, xnst ij rzhmtx.

-¡Fm, xjñtw rít! -inot f jxyf xfeós qf xtgwnsf-; fianjwyf azjxywf rjwhji
vzj ytit jxt vzj inhj ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx jx kágzqf d rjsynwf, d xzx
mnxytwnfx, df vzj st qfx vzjrfxjs, rjwjhífs vzj f hfif zsf xj qj jhmfxj zs
xfrgjsnyt, t fqlzsf xjñfq js vzj kzjxj htsthnif utw nskfrj d utw lfxyfitwf
ij qfx gzjsfx htxyzrgwjx.

-Utw jq Intx vzj rj xzxyjsyf -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj xn st kzjwfx rn
xtgwnsf ijwjhmfrjsyj, htrt mnof ij rn rnxrf mjwrfsf, vzj mfgíf ij mfhjw zs
yfq hfxynlt js yn, utw qf gqfxkjrnf vzj mfx inhmt, vzj xtsfwf utw ytit jq
rzsit. ¿Hórt vzj jx utxngqj vzj zsf wfufef vzj fujsfx xfgj rjsjfw ithj
ufqnqqtx ij wfsifx xj fywjaf f utsjw qjslzf d f hjsxzwfw qfx mnxytwnfx ij
qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx? ¿Vzé inojwf jq xjñtw Frfiíx xn qt yfq tdjwf? Ujwt
f gzjs xjlzwt vzj éq yj ujwitsfwf, utwvzj kzj jq ráx mzrnqij d htwyéx
hfgfqqjwt ij xz ynjrut, d, ijráx, lwfsij frufwfitw ij qfx itshjqqfx; rfx,
yfq yj uzinjwf mfgjw tíit vzj st yj kzjwf gnjs ijqqt, vzj st ytitx xts
htwyjxjx sn gnjs rnwfitx: fqlzstx mfd ktqqtsjx d ijxhtrjinitx. Sn ytitx qtx
vzj xj qqfrfs hfgfqqjwtx qt xts ij ytit js ytit: vzj zstx xts ij twt, tywtx
ij fqvznrnf, d ytitx ufwjhjs hfgfqqjwtx, ujwt st ytitx uzjijs jxyfw fq
ytvzj ij qf unjiwf ij qf ajwifi. Mtrgwjx gfotx mfd vzj wjanjsyfs utw
ufwjhjw hfgfqqjwtx, d hfgfqqjwtx fqytx mfd vzj ufwjhj vzj futxyf rzjwjs utw
ufwjhjw mtrgwjx gfotx; fvzéqqtx xj qqjafsyfs t hts qf frgnhnós t hts qf
anwyzi, éxytx xj fgfofs t hts qf kqtojifi t hts jq anhnt; d jx rjsjxyjw
fuwtajhmfwstx ijq htsthnrnjsyt inxhwjyt ufwf inxynslznw jxyfx itx rfsjwfx
ij hfgfqqjwtx, yfs ufwjhnitx js qtx strgwjx d yfs inxyfsyjx js qfx
fhhntsjx.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! -inot qf xtgwnsf-. ¡Vzj xjuf azjxywf rjwhji yfsyt, xjñtw
yít, vzj, xn kzjxj rjsjxyjw js zsf sjhjxnifi, utiwíf xzgnw js zs uúqunyt j
nwxj f uwjinhfw utw jxfx hfqqjx, d vzj, hts ytit jxyt, ié js zsf hjlzjwf
yfs lwfsij d js zsf xfsije yfs htsthnif, vzj xj ié f jsyjsijw vzj jx
afqnjsyj, xnjsit anjot, vzj ynjsj kzjwefx, jxyfsit jskjwrt, d vzj jsijwjef
yzjwytx, jxyfsit utw qf jifi fltgnfit, d, xtgwj ytit, vzj jx hfgfqqjwt, st
qt xnjsit; utwvzj, fzsvzj qt uzjifs xjw qtx mnifqltx, st qt xts qtx utgwjx!

-Ynjsjx rzhmf wfeós, xtgwnsf, js qt vzj inhjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d
htxfx yj uzinjwf dt ijhnw hjwhf ij qtx qnsfojx, vzj yj firnwfwfs; ujwt, utw
st rjehqfw qt inanst hts qt mzrfst, st qfx inlt. Rnwfi, frnlfx: f hzfywt
xzjwyjx ij qnsfojx, d jxyfirj fyjsyfx, xj uzjijs wjizhnw ytitx qtx vzj mfd
js jq rzsit, vzj xts éxyfx: zstx, vzj yzanjwts uwnshnuntx mzrnqijx, d xj
kzjwts jxyjsinjsit d inqfyfsit mfxyf qqjlfw f zsf xzrf lwfsijef; tywtx, vzj
yzanjwts uwnshnuntx lwfsijx, d qtx kzjwts htsxjwafsit d qtx htsxjwafs d
rfsynjsjs js jq xjw vzj htrjsefwts; tywtx, vzj, fzsvzj yzanjwts uwnshnuntx
lwfsijx, fhfgfwts js uzsyf, htrt unwárnij, mfgnjsit inrnsznit d fsnvznqfit
xz uwnshnunt mfxyf ufwfw js stsfif, htrt qt jx qf uzsyf ij qf unwárnij, vzj
wjxujyt ij xz gfxf t fxnjsyt st jx sfif; tywtx mfd, d éxytx xts qtx ráx,
vzj sn yzanjwts uwnshnunt gzjst sn wfetsfgqj rjint, d fxí yjsiwás jq kns,
xns strgwj, htrt jq qnsfoj ij qf ljsyj uqjgjdf d twinsfwnf. Ij qtx
uwnrjwtx, vzj yzanjwts uwnshnunt mzrnqij d xzgnjwts f qf lwfsijef vzj fltwf
htsxjwafs, yj xnwaf ij jojruqt qf Hfxf Tytrfsf, vzj, ij zs mzrnqij d gfot
ufxytw vzj qj int uwnshnunt, jxyá js qf hzrgwj vzj qj ajrtx. Ijq xjlzsit
qnsfoj, vzj yzat uwnshnunt js lwfsijef d qf htsxjwaf xns fzrjsyfwqf, xjwás
jojruqt rzhmtx uwíshnujx vzj utw mjwjshnf qt xts, d xj htsxjwafs js jqqf,
xns fzrjsyfwqf sn inrnsznwqf, htsyjsnésitxj js qtx qírnyjx ij xzx jxyfitx
ufhíknhfrjsyj. Ij qtx vzj htrjsefwts lwfsijx d fhfgfwts js uzsyf mfd
rnqqfwjx ij jojruqtx, utwvzj ytitx qtx Kfwftsjx d Ytqtrjtx ij Jlnuyt, qtx
Héxfwjx ij Wtrf, hts ytif qf hfyjwaf, xn jx vzj xj qj uzjij ifw jxyj
strgwj, ij nsknsnytx uwíshnujx, rtsfwhfx, xjñtwjx, rjitx, fxnwntx, ujwxfx,
lwnjltx d gáwgfwtx, ytitx jxytx qnsfojx d xjñtwítx mfs fhfgfit js uzsyf d
js stsfif, fxí jqqtx htrt qtx vzj qjx injwts uwnshnunt, uzjx st xjwá
utxngqj mfqqfw fltwf snslzst ij xzx ijhjsinjsyjx, d xn qj mfqqáxjrtx, xjwíf
js gfot d mzrnqij jxyfit. Ijq qnsfoj uqjgjdt st yjslt vzé ijhnw, xnst vzj
xnwaj xóqt ij fhwjhjsyfw jq súrjwt ij qtx vzj anajs, xns vzj rjwjehfs tywf
kfrf sn tywt jqtlnt xzx lwfsijefx. Ij ytit qt inhmt vznjwt vzj nsknwánx,
gtgfx rífx, vzj jx lwfsij qf htskzxnós vzj mfd jsywj qtx qnsfojx, d vzj
xtqtx fvzéqqtx ufwjhjs lwfsijx d nqzxywjx vzj qt rzjxywfs js qf anwyzi, d
js qf wnvzjef d qngjwfqnifi ij xzx izjñtx. Inoj anwyzijx, wnvzjefx d
qngjwfqnifijx, utwvzj jq lwfsij vzj kzjwj anhntxt xjwá anhntxt lwfsij, d jq
wnht st qngjwfq xjwá zs fafwt rjsinlt; vzj fq utxjjitw ij qfx wnvzjefx st
qj mfhj inhmtxt jq yjsjwqfx, xnst jq lfxyfwqfx, d st jq lfxyfwqfx
htrtvznjwf, xnst jq xfgjwqfx gnjs lfxyfw. Fq hfgfqqjwt utgwj st qj vzjif
tywt hfrnst ufwf rtxywfw vzj jx hfgfqqjwt xnst jq ij qf anwyzi, xnjsit
fkfgqj, gnjs hwnfit, htwyéx d htrjinit, d tknhntxt; st xtgjwgnt, st
fwwtlfsyj, st rzwrzwfitw, d, xtgwj ytit, hfwnyfynat; vzj hts itx rfwfajiíx
vzj hts ásnrt fqjlwj ié fq utgwj xj rtxywfwá yfs qngjwfq htrt jq vzj f
hfrufsf mjwnif if qnrtxsf, d st mfgwá vznjs qj ajf fitwsfit ij qfx
wjkjwnifx anwyzijx vzj, fzsvzj st qj htstehf, ijoj ij ozelfwqj d yjsjwqj
utw ij gzjsf hfxyf, d jq st xjwqt xjwíf rnqflwt; d xnjruwj qf fqfgfsef kzj
uwjrnt ij qf anwyzi, d qtx anwyztxtx st uzjijs ijofw ij xjw fqfgfitx. Itx
hfrnstx mfd, mnofx, utw itsij uzjijs nw qtx mtrgwjx f qqjlfw f xjw wnhtx d
mtswfitx: jq zst jx jq ij qfx qjywfx; tywt, jq ij qfx fwrfx. Dt yjslt ráx
fwrfx vzj qjywfx, d sfhí, xjlús rj nshqnst f qfx fwrfx, ijgfot ij qf
nskqzjshnf ijq uqfsjyf Rfwyj; fxí vzj, hfxn rj jx ktwetxt xjlznw utw xz
hfrnst, d utw éq yjslt ij nw f ujxfw ij ytit jq rzsit, d xjwá js gfqij
hfsxfwtx js ujwxzfinwrj f vzj st vznjwf dt qt vzj qtx hnjqtx vznjwjs, qf
ktwyzsf twijsf d qf wfeós unij, d, xtgwj ytit, rn atqzsyfi ijxjf. Uzjx hts
xfgjw, htrt xé, qtx nsszrjwfgqjx ywfgfotx vzj xts fsjotx fq fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf, xé yfrgnés qtx nsknsnytx gnjsjx vzj xj fqhfsefs hts jqqf; d xé
vzj qf xjsif ij qf anwyzi jx rzd jxywjhmf, d jq hfrnst ijq anhnt, fshmt d
jxufhntxt; d xé vzj xzx knsjx d ufwfijwtx xts inkjwjsyjx, utwvzj jq ijq
anhnt, inqfyfit d jxufhntxt, fhfgf js qf rzjwyj, d jq ij qf anwyzi, fsltxyt
d ywfgfotxt, fhfgf js anif, d st js anif vzj xj fhfgf, xnst js qf vzj st
yjsiwá kns; d xé, htrt inhj jq lwfs utjyf hfxyjqqfst szjxywt, vzj

Utw jxyfx fxujwjefx xj hfrnsf

ij qf nsrtwyfqnifi fq fqyt fxnjsyt,

it szshf fwwngf vznjs ij fqqí ijhqnsf.

-¡Fd, ijxinhmfif ij rí -inot qf xtgwnsf-, vzj yfrgnés rn xjñtw jx utjyf!.
Ytit qt xfgj, ytit qt fqhfsef: dt futxyfwé vzj xn vznxnjwf xjw fqgfñnq, vzj
xzunjwf kfgwnhfw zsf hfxf htrt zsf ofzqf.

Dt yj uwtrjyt, xtgwnsf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj xn jxytx ujsxfrnjsytx
hfgfqqjwjxhtx st rj qqjafxjs ywfx xí ytitx qtx xjsynitx, vzj st mfgwíf htxf
vzj dt st mnhnjxj, sn hzwntxnifi vzj st xfqnjxj ij rnx rfstx, jxujhnfqrjsyj
ofzqfx d ufqnqqtx ij injsyjx.

F jxyj ynjrut, qqfrfwts f qf uzjwyf, d, uwjlzsyfsit vznés qqfrfgf,
wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef vzj éq jwf; d, fujsfx qj mzgt htsthnit jq frf,
hzfsit htwwnó f jxhtsijwxj utw st ajwqj: yfsyt qj fgtwwjhíf. Fgwnóqj qf
xtgwnsf, xfqnó f wjhjgnwqj hts qtx gwfetx fgnjwytx xz xjñtw its Vznotyj, d
jshjwwáwtsxj qtx itx js xz futxjsyt, itsij yzanjwts tywt htqtvznt, vzj st
qj mfhj ajsyfof jq ufxfit.





Hfuíyzqt ANN. Ij qt vzj ufxó its Vznotyj hts xz jxhzijwt, hts tywtx
xzhjxtx kfrtxíxnrtx


Fujsfx ant jq frf vzj Xfshmt Ufsef xj jshjwwfgf hts xz xjñtw, hzfsit int js
qf hzjsyf ij xzx ywfytx; d, nrflnsfsit vzj ij fvzjqqf htsxzqyf mfgíf ij
xfqnw qf wjxtqzhnós ij xz yjwhjwf xfqnif d ytrfsit xz rfsyt, ytif qqjsf ij
htsltof d ujxfizrgwj, xj kzj f gzxhfw fq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj, utw xjw gnjs mfgqfit d frnlt kwjxht ij xz xjñtw, qj
utiwíf ujwxzfinw f vzj ijofxj yfs ijxafwnfit uwtuóxnyt.

Mfqqóqj ufxjásitxj utw jq ufynt ij xz hfxf, d, anésitqj, xj ijoó hfjw fsyj
xzx unjx, ywfxzifsit d htsltotxf. Hzfsit qf ant Hfwwfxht hts rzjxywfx yfs
itqtwnifx d xtgwjxfqyfifx, qj inot:

-¿Vzé jx jxyt, xjñtwf frf? ¿Vzé qj mf fhtsyjhnit, vzj ufwjhj vzj xj qj
vznjwj fwwfshfw jq fqrf?

-St jx sfif, xjñtw Xfsxós rít, xnst vzj rn frt xj xfqj; ¡xáqjxj xns izif!

-D ¿utw iósij xj xfqj, xjñtwf? -uwjlzsyó Xfsxós-. ¿Máxjqj wtyt fqlzsf ufwyj
ij xz hzjwut?

-St xj xfqj -wjxutsinó jqqf-, xnst utw qf uzjwyf ij xz qthzwf. Vznjwt
ijhnw, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw ij rn ásnrf, vzj vznjwj xfqnw tywf aje, vzj hts éxyf
xjwá qf yjwhjwf, f gzxhfw utw jxj rzsit qt vzj éq qqfrf ajsyzwfx, vzj dt st
uzjit jsyjsijw hórt qjx if jxyj strgwj. Qf aje uwnrjwf stx qj atqanjwts
fywfajxfit xtgwj zs ozrjsyt, rtqnit f ufqtx. Qf xjlzsif anst js zs hfwwt ij
gzjdjx, rjynit d jshjwwfit js zsf ofzqf, fitsij éq xj ifgf f jsyjsijw vzj
jxyfgf jshfsyfit; d ajsíf yfq jq ywnxyj, vzj st qj htsthnjwf qf rfiwj vzj
qj ufwnó: kqfht, frfwnqqt, qtx totx mzsinitx js qtx úqynrtx hfrfwfshmtsjx
ijq hjqjgwt, vzj, ufwf mfgjwqj ij atqajw fqlús yfsyt js xí, lfxyé ráx ij
xjnxhnjsytx mzjatx, htrt qt xfgj Intx d ytit jq rzsit, d rnx lfqqnsfx, vzj
st rj ijofwfs rjsynw.

-Jxt hwjt dt rzd gnjs -wjxutsinó jq gfhmnqqjw-; vzj jqqfx xts yfs gzjsfx,
yfs ltwifx d yfs gnjs hwnfifx, vzj st inwás zsf htxf utw tywf, xn
wjajsyfxjs. Js jkjhyt, xjñtwf frf: ¿st mfd tywf htxf, sn mf xzhjinit tywt
ijxrás fqlzst, xnst jq vzj xj yjrj vzj vznjwj mfhjw jq xjñtw its Vznotyj?

-St, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jqqf.

-Uzjx st yjslf ujsf -wjxutsinó jq gfhmnqqjw-, xnst aádfxj js mtwf gzjsf f
xz hfxf, d yéslfrj fijwjefit ij fqrtwefw fqlzsf htxf hfqnjsyj, d, ij
hfrnst, afdf wjefsit qf twfhnós ij Xfsyf Futqtsnf xn jx vzj qf xfgj, vzj dt
nwé qzjlt fqqá, d ajwá rfwfanqqfx.

-¡Hznyfif ij rí! -wjuqnhó jq frf-; ¿qf twfhnós ij Xfsyf Futqtsnf inhj
azjxywf rjwhji vzj wjhj?: jxt kzjwf xn rn frt qt mzgnjwf ij qfx rzjqfx,
ujwt st qt mf xnst ij qtx hfxhtx.

-Dt xé qt vzj inlt, xjñtwf frf: aádfxj d st xj utslf f inxuzyfw htsrnlt,
uzjx xfgj vzj xtd gfhmnqqjw utw Xfqfrfshf, vzj st mfd ráx vzj gfhmnqqjfw
-wjxutsinó Hfwwfxht.

D hts jxyt, xj kzj jq frf, d jq gfhmnqqjw kzj qzjlt f gzxhfw fq hzwf, f
htrzsnhfw hts éq qt vzj xj inwá f xz ynjrut.

Js jq vzj jxyzanjwts jshjwwfitx its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, ufxfwts qfx wfetsjx
vzj hts rzhmf uzsyzfqnifi d ajwifijwf wjqfhnós hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf.

Inot Xfshmt f xz frt:

-Xjñtw, df dt yjslt wjqzhnif f rn rzojw f vzj rj ijoj nw hts azjxywf rjwhji
fitsij vznxnjwj qqjafwrj.

-Wjizhnif mfx ij ijhnw, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj st wjqzhnif.

-Zsf t itx ajhjx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, mj xzuqnhfit f
azjxywf rjwhji vzj st rj jrnjsij qtx athfgqtx, xn jx vzj jsynjsij qt vzj
vznjwt ijhnw js jqqtx, d vzj, hzfsit st qtx jsynjsif, inlf: ''Xfshmt, t
infgqt, st yj jsynjsit''; d xn dt st rj ijhqfwfwj, jsytshjx utiwá
jrjsifwrj; vzj dt xtd yfs kóhnq...

-St yj jsynjsit, Xfshmt -inot qzjlt its Vznotyj-, uzjx st xé vzé vznjwj
ijhnw xtd yfs kóhnq.

-Yfs kóhnq vznjwj ijhnw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- xtd yfs fxí.

-Rjstx yj jsynjsit fltwf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

-Uzjx xn st rj uzjij jsyjsijw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, st xé hórt qt inlf: st xé
ráx, d Intx xjf htsrnlt.

-Df, df hfnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- js jqqt: yú vznjwjx ijhnw vzj jwjx
yfs ióhnq, gqfsit d rfñjwt vzj ytrfwáx qt vzj dt yj inojwj, d ufxfwáx utw
qt vzj yj jsxjñfwj.

-Futxyfwé dt -inot Xfshmt- vzj ijxij jq jruwnshnunt rj hfqó d rj jsyjsinó,
xnst vzj vznxt yzwgfwrj utw tíwrj ijhnw tywfx ithnjsyfx ufythmfifx.

-Utiwá xjw -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. D, js jkjhyt, ¿vzé inhj Yjwjxf?

-Yjwjxf inhj -inot Xfshmt- vzj fyj gnjs rn ijit hts azjxywf rjwhji, d vzj
mfgqjs hfwyfx d hfqqjs gfwgfx, utwvzj vznjs ijxyfof st gfwfof, uzjx ráx
afqj zs ytrf vzj itx yj ifwé. D dt inlt vzj jq htsxjot ij qf rzojw jx utht,
d jq vzj st qj ytrf jx qtht.

-D dt qt inlt yfrgnés -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Ijhni, Xfshmt frnlt; ufxá
fijqfsyj, vzj mfgqánx mtd ij ujwqfx.

-Jx jq hfxt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj, htrt azjxywf rjwhji rjotw xfgj, ytitx
jxyfrtx xzojytx f qf rzjwyj, d vzj mtd xtrtx d rfñfsf st, d vzj yfs uwjxyt
xj af jq htwijwt htrt jq hfwsjwt, d vzj sfinj uzjij uwtrjyjwxj js jxyj
rzsit ráx mtwfx ij anif ij qfx vzj Intx vznxnjwj ifwqj, utwvzj qf rzjwyj jx
xtwif, d, hzfsit qqjlf f qqfrfw f qfx uzjwyfx ij szjxywf anif, xnjruwj af
ijuwnjxf d st qf mfwás ijyjsjw sn wzjltx, sn kzjwefx, sn hjuywtx, sn
rnywfx, xjlús jx uúgqnhf ate d kfrf, d xjlús stx qt inhjs utw jxtx
uúqunytx.

-Ytit jxt jx ajwifi -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt st xé iósij afx f ufwfw.

-Atd f ufwfw -inot Xfshmt- js vzj azjxf rjwhji rj xjñfqj xfqfwnt htsthnit
ij qt vzj rj mf ij ifw hfif rjx jq ynjrut vzj qj xnwanjwj, d vzj jq yfq
xfqfwnt xj rj uflzj ij xz mfhnjsif; vzj st vznjwt jxyfw f rjwhjijx, vzj
qqjlfs yfwij, t rfq, t szshf; hts qt rít rj fdzij Intx. Js kns, dt vznjwt
xfgjw qt vzj lfst, utht t rzhmt vzj xjf, vzj xtgwj zs mzjat utsj qf
lfqqnsf, d rzhmtx uthtx mfhjs zs rzhmt, d rnjsywfx xj lfsf fqlt st xj
unjwij sfif. Ajwifi xjf vzj xn xzhjinjxj, qt hzfq sn qt hwjt sn qt jxujwt,
vzj azjxf rjwhji rj injxj qf ísxzqf vzj rj ynjsj uwtrjynif, st xtd yfs
nslwfyt, sn qqjat qfx htxfx yfs utw qtx hfgtx, vzj st vzjwwé vzj xj fuwjhnj
qt vzj rtsyfwj qf wjsyf ij qf yfq ísxzqf, d xj ijxhzjsyj ij rn xfqfwnt lfyf
utw hfsynifi.

-Xfshmt frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, f qfx ajhjx, yfs gzjsf xzjqj xjw zsf
lfyf htrt zsf wfyf.

-Df jsynjsit -inot Xfshmt-: dt futxyfwé vzj mfgíf ij ijhnw wfyf, d st lfyf;
ujwt st nrutwyf sfif, uzjx azjxf rjwhji rj mf jsyjsinit.

-D yfs jsyjsinit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj mj ujsjywfit qt úqynrt ij yzx
ujsxfrnjsytx, d xé fq gqfsht vzj ynwfx hts qfx nszrjwfgqjx xfjyfx ij yzx
wjkwfsjx. Rnwf, Xfshmt: dt gnjs yj xjñfqfwíf xfqfwnt, xn mzgnjwf mfqqfit js
fqlzsf ij qfx mnxytwnfx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx jojruqt vzj rj
ijxhzgwnjxj d rtxywfxj, utw fqlús ujvzjñt wjxvznhnt, vzé jx qt vzj xtqífs
lfsfw hfif rjx, t hfif fñt; ujwt dt mj qjíit ytifx t qfx ráx ij xzx
mnxytwnfx, d st rj fhzjwit mfgjw qjíit vzj snslús hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj mfdf
xjñfqfit htsthnit xfqfwnt f xz jxhzijwt. Xóqt xé vzj ytitx xjwaífs f
rjwhji, d vzj, hzfsit rjstx xj qt ujsxfgfs, xn f xzx xjñtwjx qjx mfgíf
htwwnit gnjs qf xzjwyj, xj mfqqfgfs uwjrnfitx hts zsf ísxzqf, t hts tywf
htxf jvznafqjsyj, d, utw qt rjstx, vzjifgfs hts yíyzqt d xjñtwíf. Xn hts
jxyfx jxujwfsefx d finyfrjsytx atx, Xfshmt, lzxyánx ij atqajw f xjwanwrj,
xjf js gzjsf mtwf: vzj ujsxfw vzj dt mj ij xfhfw ij xzx yéwrnstx d vznhntx
qf fsynlzf zxfsef ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj jx ujsxfw js qt jxhzxfit. Fxí
vzj, Xfshmt rít, atqajtx f azjxywf hfxf, d ijhqfwfi f azjxywf Yjwjxf rn
nsyjshnós; d xn jqqf lzxyfwj d atx lzxyáwjijx ij jxyfw f rjwhji htsrnlt,
gjsj vznijr; d xn st, yfs frnltx htrt ij fsyjx; vzj xn fq ufqtrfw st qj
kfqyf hjgt, st qj kfqyfwás ufqtrfx. D fiajwyni, mnot, vzj afqj ráx gzjsf
jxujwfsef vzj wzns utxjxnós, d gzjsf vzjof vzj rfqf uflf. Mfgqt ij jxyf
rfsjwf, Xfshmt, utw ifwtx f jsyjsijw vzj yfrgnés htrt atx xé dt fwwtofw
wjkwfsjx htrt qqtanitx. D, knsfqrjsyj, vznjwt ijhnw, d tx inlt, vzj xn st
vzjwénx ajsnw f rjwhji htsrnlt d htwwjw qf xzjwyj vzj dt htwwnjwj, vzj Intx
vzjij hts atx d tx mflf zs xfsyt; vzj f rí st rj kfqyfwás jxhzijwtx ráx
tgjinjsyjx, ráx xtqíhnytx, d st yfs jrufhmfitx sn yfs mfgqfitwjx htrt atx.

Hzfsit Xfshmt tdó qf knwrj wjxtqzhnós ij xz frt xj qj fszgqó jq hnjqt d xj
qj hfdjwts qfx fqfx ijq htwfeós, utwvzj yjsíf hwjíit vzj xz xjñtw st xj
nwíf xns éq utw ytitx qtx mfgjwjx ijq rzsit; d fxí, jxyfsit xzxujsxt d
ujsxfynat, jsywó Xfsxós Hfwwfxht d qf xtgwnsf, ijxjtxtx ij tíw hts vzé
wfetsjx ujwxzfiíf f xz xjñtw vzj st ytwsfwxj f gzxhfw qfx fajsyzwfx. Qqjló
Xfsxós, xthfwwós kfrtxt, d, fgwfeásitqj htrt qf aje uwnrjwf d hts ate
qjafsyfif, qj inot:

-¡Tm kqtw ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf; tm qze wjxuqfsijhnjsyj ij qfx fwrfx; tm
mtstw d jxujot ij qf sfhnós jxufñtqf! Uqjlf f Intx ytitutijwtxt, itsij ráx
qfwlfrjsyj xj htsynjsj, vzj qf ujwxtsf t ujwxtsfx vzj uzxnjwjs nrujinrjsyt
d jxytwgfwjs yz yjwhjwf xfqnif, vzj st qf mfqqjs js jq qfgjwnsyt ij xzx
ijxjtx, sn ofráx xj qjx hzruqf qt vzj rfq ijxjfwjs.

D, atqanésitxj fq frf, qj inot:

-Gnjs uzjij qf xjñtwf frf st wjefw ráx qf twfhnós ij Xfsyf Futqtsnf, vzj dt
xé vzj jx ijyjwrnsfhnós uwjhnxf ij qfx jxkjwfx vzj jq xjñtw its Vznotyj
azjqaf f jojhzyfw xzx fqytx d szjatx ujsxfrnjsytx, d dt jshfwlfwíf rzhmt rn
htshnjshnf xn st nsynrfxj d ujwxzfinjxj f jxyj hfgfqqjwt vzj st yjslf ráx
ynjrut jshtlnif d ijyjsnif qf kzjwef ij xz afqjwtxt gwfet d qf gtsifi ij xz
ásnrt afqjsyíxnrt, utwvzj ijkwfzif hts xz yfwifsef jq ijwjhmt ij qtx
yzjwytx, jq frufwt ij qtx mzéwkfstx, qf mtswf ij qfx itshjqqfx, jq kfatw ij
qfx anzifx d jq fwwnrt ij qfx hfxfifx, d tywfx htxfx ijxyj ofje, vzj ythfs,
fyfñjs, ijujsijs d xts fsjofx f qf twijs ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj. ¡Jf,
xjñtw its Vznotyj rít, mjwrtxt d gwfat, fsyjx mtd vzj rfñfsf xj utslf
azjxywf rjwhji d xz lwfsijef js hfrnst; d xn fqlzsf htxf kfqyfwj ufwf
utsjwqj js jojhzhnós, fvzí jxytd dt ufwf xzuqnwqf hts rn ujwxtsf d
mfhnjsif; d xn kzjwj sjhjxnifi xjwanw f yz rflsnknhjshnf ij jxhzijwt, qt
yjsiwé f kjqnhíxnrf ajsyzwf!

F jxyf xfeós, inot its Vznotyj, atqanésitxj f Xfshmt:

-¿St yj inoj dt, Xfshmt, vzj rj mfgífs ij xtgwfw jxhzijwtx? Rnwf vznés xj
tkwjhj f xjwqt, xnst jq nsfzinyt gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, ujwujyzt
ywfxyzqt d wjlthnofitw ij qtx ufyntx ij qfx jxhzjqfx xfqrfsynhjsxjx, xfst
ij xz ujwxtsf, álnq ij xzx rnjrgwtx, hfqqfit, xzkwnitw fxí ijq hfqtw htrt
ijq kwít, fxí ij qf mfrgwj htrt ij qf xji, hts ytifx fvzjqqfx ufwyjx vzj xj
wjvznjwjs ufwf xjw jxhzijwt ij zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj. Ujwt st ujwrnyf jq
hnjqt vzj, utw xjlznw rn lzxyt, ijxofwwjyj d vznjgwj qf htqzsf ij qfx
qjywfx d jq afxt ij qfx hnjshnfx, d ywtsvzj qf ufqrf jrnsjsyj ij qfx gzjsfx
d qngjwfqjx fwyjx. Vzéijxj jq szjat Xfsxós js xz ufywnf, d, mtswásitqf,
mtswj ozsyfrjsyj qfx hfsfx ij xzx fshnfstx ufiwjx; vzj dt hts hzfqvznjw
jxhzijwt jxyfwé htsyjsyt, df vzj Xfshmt st xj inlsf ij ajsnw htsrnlt.

-Xí inlst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt, jsyjwsjhnit d qqjstx ij qálwnrfx qtx totx; d
uwtxnlznó-: St xj inwá utw rí, xjñtw rít: jq ufs htrnit d qf htrufñíf
ijxmjhmf; xí, vzj st ajslt dt ij fqlzsf fqhzwsnf ijxflwfijhnif, vzj df xfgj
ytit jq rzsit, d jxujhnfqrjsyj rn uzjgqt, vznés kzjwts qtx Ufsefx, ij vznjs
dt ijhnjsit, d ráx, vzj yjslt htsthnit d hfqfit utw rzhmfx gzjsfx tgwfx, d
utw ráx gzjsfx ufqfgwfx, jq ijxjt vzj azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj ij mfhjwrj
rjwhji; d xn rj mj uzjxyt js hzjsyfx ij yfsyt ráx hzfsyt fhjwhf ij rn
xfqfwnt, mf xnit utw htruqfhjw f rn rzojw; qf hzfq, hzfsit ytrf qf rfst f
ujwxzfinw zsf htxf, st mfd rfet vzj yfsyt fuwnjyj qtx fwtx ij zsf hzgf htrt
jqqf fuwnjyf f vzj xj mflf qt vzj vznjwj; ujwt, js jkjyt, jq mtrgwj mf ij
xjw mtrgwj, d qf rzojw, rzojw; d, uzjx dt xtd mtrgwj itsijvznjwf, vzj st qt
uzjit sjlfw, yfrgnés qt vznjwt xjw js rn hfxf, ujxj f vznjs ujxfwj; d fxí,
st mfd ráx vzj mfhjw, xnst vzj azjxywf rjwhji twijsj xz yjxyfrjsyt hts xz
htinhnqt, js rtit vzj st xj uzjif wjatqhfw, d utslártstx qzjlt js hfrnst,
utwvzj st ufijehf jq fqrf ijq xjñtw Xfsxós, vzj inhj vzj xz htshnjshnf qj
qnyf vzj ujwxzfif f azjxywf rjwhji f xfqnw aje yjwhjwf utw jxj rzsit; d dt
ij szjat rj tkwjeht f xjwanw f azjxywf rjwhji knjq d qjlfqrjsyj, yfs gnjs d
rjotw vzj hzfsytx jxhzijwtx mfs xjwanit f hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx js qtx
ufxfitx d uwjxjsyjx ynjrutx.

Firnwfit vzjió jq gfhmnqqjw ij tíw jq yéwrnst d rtit ij mfgqfw ij Xfshmt
Ufsef; vzj, uzjxyt vzj mfgíf qjíit qf uwnrjwf mnxytwnf ij xz xjñtw, szshf
hwjdó vzj jwf yfs lwfhntxt htrt fqqí qj unsyfs; ujwt, tdésitqj ijhnw fmtwf
yjxyfrjsyt d htinhnqt vzj st xj uzjif wjatqhfw, js qzlfw ij yjxyfrjsyt d
htinhnqt vzj st xj uzjif wjathfw, hwjdó ytit qt vzj iéq mfgíf qjíit, d
htsknwróqt utw zst ij qtx ráx xtqjsjx rjsyjhfytx ij szjxywtx xnlqtx; d inot
jsywj xí vzj yfqjx itx qthtx htrt frt d rtet st xj mfgwífs anxyt js jq
rzsit.

Knsfqrjsyj, its Vznotyj d Xfshmt xj fgwfefwts d vzjifwts frnltx, d hts
ufwjhjw d gjsjuqáhnyt ijq lwfs Hfwwfxht, vzj utw jsytshjx jwf xz twáhzqt,
xj twijsó vzj ij fqqí f ywjx iífx kzjxj xz ufwynif; js qtx hzfqjx mfgwíf
qzlfw ij fijwjefw qt sjhjxfwnt ufwf jq anfoj, d ij gzxhfw zsf hjqfif ij
jshfoj, vzj js ytifx rfsjwfx inot its Vznotyj vzj qf mfgíf ij qqjafw.
Tkwjhnóxjqf Xfsxós, utwvzj xfgíf st xj qf sjlfwíf zs frnlt xzdt vzj qf
yjsíf, uzjxyt vzj jxyfgf ráx jxhzwf utw jq twís d jq rtmt vzj hqfwf d
qnrunf utw jq yjwxt fhjwt.

Qfx rfqinhntsjx vzj qfx itx, frf d xtgwnsf, jhmfwts fq gfhmnqqjw st
yzanjwts hzjsyt: rjxfwts xzx hfgjqqtx, fwfñfwts xzx wtxywtx, d, fq rtit ij
qfx jsijhmfijwfx vzj xj zxfgfs, qfrjsyfgfs qf ufwynif htrt xn kzjwf qf
rzjwyj ij xz xjñtw. Jq ijxnlst vzj yzat Xfsxós, ufwf ujwxzfinwqj f vzj tywf
aje xfqnjxj, kzj mfhjw qt vzj fijqfsyj hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf, ytit utw htsxjot
ijq hzwf d ijq gfwgjwt, hts vznjs éq fsyjx qt mfgíf htrzsnhfit.

Js wjxtqzhnós, js fvzjqqtx ywjx iífx its Vznotyj d Xfshmt xj fhtrtifwts ij
qt vzj qjx ufwjhnó htsajsnwqjx; d, mfgnjsit fuqfhfit Xfshmt f xz rzojw, d
its Vznotyj f xz xtgwnsf d f xz frf, fq fsthmjhjw, xns vzj sfinj qt anjxj,
xnst jq gfhmnqqjw, vzj vznxt fhtrufñfwqjx rjinf qjlzf ijq qzlfw, xj
uzxnjwts js hfrnst ijq Ytgtxt: its Vznotyj xtgwj xz gzjs Wthnsfsyj, d
Xfshmt xtgwj xz fsynlzt wzhnt, uwtajíifx qfx fqktwofx ij htxfx ythfsyjx f
qf gzhóqnhf, d qf gtqxf ij insjwtx vzj qj int its Vznotyj ufwf qt vzj xj
tkwjhnjxj. Fgwfeóqj Xfsxós, d xzuqnhóqj qj fanxfxj ij xz gzjsf t rfqf
xzjwyj, ufwf fqjlwfwxj hts éxyf t jsywnxyjhjwxj hts fvzéqqf, htrt qfx qjdjx
ij xz frnxyfi ujiífs. Uwtrjynóxjqt its Vznotyj, int Xfsxós qf azjqyf f xz
qzlfw, d qtx itx ytrfwts qf ij qf lwfs hnzifi ijq Ytgtxt.





Hfuíyzqt ANNN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qt vzj qj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj, djsit f ajw
xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt


''¡Gjsinyt xjf jq utijwtxt Fqá! -inhj Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn fq htrnjset ijxyj
thyfat hfuíyzqt-. ¡Gjsinyt xjf Fqá!'', wjunyj ywjx ajhjx; d inhj vzj if
jxyfx gjsinhntsjx utw ajw vzj ynjsj df js hfrufñf f its Vznotyj d f Xfshmt,
d vzj qtx qjytwjx ij xz flwfifgqj mnxytwnf uzjijs mfhjw hzjsyf vzj ijxij
jxyj uzsyt htrnjsefs qfx mfefñfx d itsfnwjx ij its Vznotyj d ij xz
jxhzijwt; ujwxzáijqjx vzj xj qjx tqanijs qfx ufxfifx hfgfqqjwífx ijq
nsljsntxt mnifqlt, d utslfs qtx totx js qfx vzj jxyás utw ajsnw, vzj ijxij
fltwf js jq hfrnst ijq Ytgtxt htrnjsefs, htrt qfx tywfx htrjsefwts js qtx
hfrutx ij Rtsynjq, d st jx rzhmt qt vzj unij ufwf yfsyt htrt éq uwtrjyj; d
fxí uwtxnlzj inhnjsit:

Xtqtx vzjifwts its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, d, fujsfx xj mzgt fufwyfit Xfsxós,
hzfsit htrjseó f wjqnshmfw Wthnsfsyj d f xtxunwfw jq wzhnt, vzj ij
jsywfrgtx, hfgfqqjwt d jxhzijwt, kzj yjsnit f gzjsf xjñfq d utw kjqnhíxnrt
flüjwt; fzsvzj, xn xj mf ij htsyfw qf ajwifi, ráx kzjwts qtx xtxunwtx d
wjgzestx ijq wzhnt vzj qtx wjqnshmtx ijq wthís, ij itsij htqnlnó Xfshmt vzj
xz ajsyzwf mfgíf ij xtgwjuzofw d utsjwxj jshnrf ij qf ij xz xjñtw,
kzsiásitxj st xé xn js fxywtqtlíf ozinhnfwnf vzj éq xj xfgíf, uzjxyt vzj qf
mnxytwnf st qt ijhqfwf; xóqt qj tdjwts ijhnw vzj, hzfsit ywtujefgf t hfíf,
xj mtqlfwf st mfgjw xfqnit ij hfxf, utwvzj ijq ywtujefw t hfjw st xj xfhfgf
tywf htxf xnst jq efufyt wtyt t qfx htxynqqfx vzjgwfifx; d, fzsvzj ytsyt,
st fsifgf js jxyt rzd kzjwf ij hfrnst. Iíotqj its Vznotyj:

-Xfshmt frnlt, qf sthmj xj stx af jsywfsit f ráx fsifw, d hts ráx jxhzwnifi
ij qf vzj mfgífrtx rjsjxyjw ufwf fqhfsefw f ajw hts jq iíf fq Ytgtxt,
fitsij yjslt ijyjwrnsfit ij nw fsyjx vzj js tywf fajsyzwf rj utslf, d fqqí
ytrfwé qf gjsinhnós d gzjsf qnhjshnf ij qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf, hts qf hzfq
qnhjshnf unjsxt d yjslt utw hnjwyt ij fhfgfw d ifw kjqnhj hnrf f ytif
ujqnlwtxf fajsyzwf, utwvzj snslzsf htxf ijxyf anif mfhj ráx afqnjsyjx f qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj ajwxj kfatwjhnitx ij xzx ifrfx.

-Dt fxí qt hwjt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; ujwt yjslt utw inknhzqytxt vzj azjxywf
rjwhji uzjif mfgqfwqf sn ajwxj hts jqqf, js ufwyj, f qt rjstx, vzj uzjif
wjhjgnw xz gjsinhnós, xn df st xj qf jhmf ijxij qfx gfwifx ijq htwwfq, utw
itsij dt qf an qf aje uwnrjwf, hzfsit qj qqjaé qf hfwyf itsij ngfs qfx
szjafx ij qfx xfsijhjx d qthzwfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji vzjifgf mfhnjsit js jq
htwfeós ij Xnjwwf Rtwjsf.

-¿Gfwifx ij htwwfq xj yj fsytofwts fvzéqqfx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-,
fitsij t utw itsij anxyj fvzjqqf ofráx gfxyfsyjrjsyj fqfgfif ljsynqjef d
mjwrtxzwf? St ijgífs ij xjw xnst lfqjwífx t htwwjitwjx, t qtsofx, t htrt
qfx qqfrfs, ij wnhtx d wjfqjx ufqfhntx.

-Ytit uzit xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt f rí gfwifx rj ufwjhnjwts, xn st jx
vzj xtd kfqyt ij rjrtwnf.

-Hts ytit jxt, afrtx fqqá, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj htrt dt qf
ajf, jxt xj rj if vzj xjf utw gfwifx vzj utw ajsyfsfx, t utw wjxvznhntx, t
ajwofx ij ofwinsjx; vzj hzfqvznjw wfdt vzj ijq xtq ij xz gjqqjef qqjlzj f
rnx totx fqzrgwfwá rn jsyjsinrnjsyt d ktwyfqjhjwá rn htwfeós, ij rtit vzj
vzjij úsnht d xns nlzfq js qf inxhwjhnós d js qf afqjsyíf.

-Uzjx js ajwifi, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj hzfsit dt an jxj xtq ij qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj st jxyfgf yfs hqfwt, vzj uzinjxj jhmfw ij
xí wfdtx fqlzstx, d ijgnó ij xjw vzj, htrt xz rjwhji jxyfgf fmjhmfsit fvzjq
ywnlt vzj inoj, jq rzhmt utqat vzj xfhfgf xj qj uzxt htrt szgj fsyj jq
wtxywt d xj qj jxhzwjhnó.

-¡Vzj ytifaíf ifx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, js ijhnw, js ujsxfw, js hwjjw
d js utwknfw vzj rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf fmjhmfgf ywnlt, xnjsit jxt zs rjsjxyjw
d jojwhnhnt vzj af ijxanfit ij ytit qt vzj mfhjs d ijgjs mfhjw qfx ujwxtsfx
uwnshnufqjx vzj jxyás htsxynyznifx d lzfwififx ufwf tywtx jojwhnhntx d
jsywjyjsnrnjsytx, vzj rzjxywfs f ynwt ij gfqqjxyf xz uwnshnufqnifi...! Rfq
xj yj fhzjwifs f yn, ¡tm Xfshmt!, fvzjqqtx ajwxtx ij szjxywt utjyf itsij
stx unsyf qfx qfgtwjx vzj mfhífs fqqá js xzx rtwfifx ij hwnxyfq fvzjqqfx
hzfywt snskfx vzj ijq Yfot frfit xfhfwts qfx hfgjefx, d xj xjsyfwts f
qfgwfw js jq uwfit ajwij fvzjqqfx wnhfx yjqfx vzj fqqí jq nsljsntxt utjyf
stx ijxhwngj, vzj ytifx jwfs ij twt, xnwlt d ujwqfx htsyjxyfx d yjonifx. D
ijxyf rfsjwf ijgíf ij xjw jq ij rn xjñtwf hzfsit yú qf anxyj; xnst vzj qf
jsaninf vzj fqlús rfq jshfsyfitw ijgj ij yjsjw f rnx htxfx, ytifx qfx vzj
rj mfs ij ifw lzxyt ywzjhf d azjqaj js inkjwjsyjx knlzwfx vzj jqqfx ynjsjs;
d fxí, yjrt vzj, js fvzjqqf mnxytwnf vzj inhjs vzj fsif nruwjxf ij rnx
mfefñfx, xn utw ajsyzwf mf xnit xz fzytw fqlús xfgnt rn jsjrnlt, mfgwá
uzjxyt zsfx htxfx utw tywfx, rjehqfsit hts zsf ajwifi rnq rjsynwfx,
inajwynésitxj f htsyfw tywfx fhhntsjx kzjwf ij qt vzj wjvznjwj qf
htsynszfhnós ij zsf ajwifijwf mnxytwnf. ¡Tm jsaninf, wfíe ij nsknsnytx
rfqjx d hfwhtrf ij qfx anwyzijx! Ytitx qtx anhntx, Xfshmt, ywfjs zs st xé
vzé ij ijqjnyj htsxnlt, ujwt jq ij qf jsaninf st ywfj xnst inxlzxytx,
wfshtwjx d wfgnfx.

-Jxt jx qt vzj dt inlt yfrgnés -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d unjsxt vzj js jxf
qjdjsif t mnxytwnf vzj stx inot jq gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht vzj ij stxtywtx mfgíf
anxyt ijgj ij fsifw rn mtswf f hthmj fhá, hnshmfit, d, htrt inhjs, fq
jxywnhtyj, fvzí d fqqí, gfwwnjsit qfx hfqqjx. Uzjx, f kj ij gzjst, vzj st
mj inhmt dt rfq ij snslús jshfsyfitw, sn yjslt yfsytx gnjsjx vzj uzjif xjw
jsaninfit; gnjs jx ajwifi vzj xtd fqlt rfqnhntxt, d vzj yjslt rnx hnjwytx
fxtrtx ij gjqqfht, ujwt ytit qt hzgwj d yfuf qf lwfs hfuf ij qf xnruqjef
ríf, xnjruwj sfyzwfq d szshf fwynknhntxf. D hzfsit tywf htxf st yzanjxj
xnst jq hwjjw, htrt xnjruwj hwjt, knwrj d ajwifijwfrjsyj js Intx d js ytit
fvzjqqt vzj ynjsj d hwjj qf Xfsyf Nlqjxnf Hfyóqnhf Wtrfsf, d jq xjw jsjrnlt
rtwyfq, htrt qt xtd, ij qtx oziítx, ijgífs qtx mnxytwnfitwjx yjsjw
rnxjwnhtwinf ij rí d ywfyfwrj gnjs js xzx jxhwnytx. Ujwt inlfs qt vzj
vznxnjwjs; vzj ijxszit sfhí, ijxszit rj mfqqt: sn unjwit sn lfst; fzsvzj,
utw ajwrj uzjxyt js qngwtx d fsifw utw jxj rzsit ij rfst js rfst, st xj rj
if zs mnlt vzj inlfs ij rí ytit qt vzj vznxnjwjs.

-Jxt rj ufwjhj, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, f qt vzj xzhjinó f zs kfrtxt
utjyf ijxytx ynjrutx, jq hzfq, mfgnjsit mjhmt zsf rfqnhntxf xáynwf htsywf
ytifx qfx ifrfx htwyjxfsfx, st uzxt sn strgwó js jqqf f zsf ifrf vzj xj
utiíf izifw xn qt jwf t st; qf hzfq, anjsit vzj st jxyfgf js qf qnxyf ij
qfx ijráx, xj vzjoó fq utjyf, inhnésitqj vzj vzé mfgíf anxyt js jqqf ufwf
st utsjwqf js jq súrjwt ij qfx tywfx, d vzj fqfwlfxj qf xáynwf, d qf
uzxnjxj js jq jsxfshmj; xn st, vzj rnwfxj ufwf qt vzj mfgíf sfhnit. Míetqt
fxí jq utjyf, d uúxtqf hzfq st inlfs izjñfx, d jqqf vzjió xfynxkjhmf, utw
ajwxj hts kfrf, fzsvzj nskfrj. Yfrgnés anjsj hts jxyt qt vzj hzjsyfs ij
fvzjq ufxytw vzj uzxt kzjlt d fgwfxó jq yjruqt kfrtxt ij Infsf, htsyfit utw
zsf ij qfx xnjyj rfwfanqqfx ijq rzsit, xóqt utwvzj vzjifxj anat xz strgwj
js qtx xnlqtx ajsnijwtx; d, fzsvzj xj rfsió vzj sfinj qj strgwfxj, sn
mnhnjxj utw ufqfgwf t utw jxhwnyt rjshnós ij xz strgwj, utwvzj st
htsxnlznjxj jq kns ij xz ijxjt, ytifaíf xj xzut vzj xj qqfrfgf Jwóxywfyt.
Yfrgnés fqzij f jxyt qt vzj xzhjinó fq lwfsij jrujwfitw Hfwqt Vznsyt hts zs
hfgfqqjwt js Wtrf. Vznxt ajw jq jrujwfitw fvzjq kfrtxt yjruqt ij qf
Wtyzsif, vzj js qf fsynlüjifi xj qqfró jq yjruqt ij ytitx qtx intxjx, d
fmtwf, hts rjotw athfhnós, xj qqfrf ij ytitx qtx xfsytx, d jx jq jinknhnt
vzj ráx jsyjwt mf vzjifit ij qtx vzj fqeó qf ljsynqnifi js Wtrf, d jx jq
vzj ráx htsxjwaf qf kfrf ij qf lwfsintxnifi d rflsnknhjshnf ij xzx
kzsifitwjx: éq jx ij mjhmzwf ij zsf rjinf sfwfsof, lwfsiíxnrt js jxywjrt,
d jxyá rzd hqfwt, xns jsywfwqj tywf qze vzj qf vzj qj htshjij zsf ajsyfsf,
t, utw rjotw ijhnw, hqfwfgtdf wjitsif vzj jxyá js xz hnrf, ijxij qf hzfq
rnwfsit jq jrujwfitw jq jinknhnt, jxyfgf hts éq d f xz qfit zs hfgfqqjwt
wtrfst, ijhqfwásitqj qtx uwnrtwjx d xzynqjefx ij fvzjqqf lwfs rávznsf d
rjrtwfgqj fwvznyjyzwf; d, mfgnésitxj vznyfit ij qf hqfwfgtdf, inot fq
jrujwfitw: ''Rnq ajhjx, Xfhwf Rfojxyfi, rj anst ijxjt ij fgwfefwrj hts
azjxywf Rfojxyfi d fwwtofwrj ij fvzjqqf hqfwfgtdf fgfot, utw ijofw ij rí
kfrf jyjwsf js jq rzsit''. ''Dt tx flwfijeht -wjxutsinó jq jrujwfitw- jq st
mfgjw uzjxyt yfs rfq ujsxfrnjsyt js jkjyt, d ij fvzí fijqfsyj st tx utsiwé
dt js thfxnós vzj atqaánx f mfhjw uwzjgf ij azjxywf qjfqyfi; d fxí, tx
rfsit vzj ofráx rj mfgqénx, sn jxyénx itsij dt jxyzanjwj''. D, ywfx jxyfx
ufqfgwfx, qj mnet zsf lwfs rjwhji. Vznjwt ijhnw, Xfshmt, vzj jq ijxjt ij
fqhfsefw kfrf jx fhynat js lwfs rfsjwf. ¿Vznés unjsxfx yú vzj fwwtoó f
Mtwfhnt ijq uzjsyj fgfot, fwrfit ij ytifx fwrfx, js qf uwtkzsinifi ijq
Yngwj? ¿Vznés fgwfxó jq gwfet d qf rfst f Rzhnt? ¿Vznés nrujqnó f Hzwhnt f
qfsefwxj js qf uwtkzsif xnrf fwinjsyj vzj fufwjhnó js qf rnyfi ij Wtrf?
¿Vznés, htsywf ytitx qtx flüjwtx vzj js htsywf xj qj mfgífs rtxywfit, mnet
ufxfw jq Wzgnhós f Héxfw? D, hts jojruqtx ráx rtijwstx, ¿vznés gfwwjsó qtx
sfaítx d ijoó js xjht d fnxqfitx qtx afqjwtxtx jxufñtqjx lznfitx utw jq
htwyjxíxnrt Htwyéx js jq Szjat Rzsit? Ytifx jxyfx d tywfx lwfsijx d
inkjwjsyjx mfefñfx xts, kzjwts d xjwás tgwfx ij qf kfrf, vzj qtx rtwyfqjx
ijxjfs htrt uwjrntx d ufwyj ij qf nsrtwyfqnifi vzj xzx kfrtxtx mjhmtx
rjwjhjs, uzjxyt vzj qtx hwnxynfstx, hfyóqnhtx d fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx ráx
mfgjrtx ij fyjsijw f qf lqtwnf ij qtx xnlqtx ajsnijwtx, vzj jx jyjwsf js
qfx wjlntsjx jyéwjfx d hjqjxyjx, vzj f qf afsnifi ij qf kfrf vzj js jxyj
uwjxjsyj d fhfgfgqj xnlqt xj fqhfsef; qf hzfq kfrf, utw rzhmt vzj izwj, js
kns xj mf ij fhfgfw hts jq rjxrt rzsit, vzj ynjsj xz kns xjñfqfit. Fxí, ¡tm
Xfshmt!, vzj szjxywfx tgwfx st mfs ij xfqnw ijq qírnyj vzj stx ynjsj uzjxyt
qf wjqnlnós hwnxynfsf, vzj uwtkjxfrtx. Mjrtx ij rfyfw js qtx lnlfsyjx f qf
xtgjwgnf; f qf jsaninf, js qf ljsjwtxnifi d gzjs ujhmt; f qf nwf, js jq
wjutxfit htsynsjsyj d vznjyzi ijq ásnrt; f qf lzqf d fq xzjñt, js jq utht
htrjw vzj htrjrtx d js jq rzhmt ajqfw vzj ajqfrtx; f qf qzozwnf d qfxhnanf,
js qf qjfqyfi vzj lzfwifrtx f qfx vzj mjrtx mjhmt xjñtwfx ij szjxywtx
ujsxfrnjsytx; f qf ujwjef, hts fsifw utw ytifx qfx ufwyjx ijq rzsit,
gzxhfsit qfx thfxntsjx vzj stx uzjifs mfhjw d mflfs, xtgwj hwnxynfstx,
kfrtxtx hfgfqqjwtx. Ajx fvzí, Xfshmt, qtx rjintx utw itsij xj fqhfsefs qtx
jxywjrtx ij fqfgfsefx vzj htsxnlt ywfj qf gzjsf kfrf.

-Ytit qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji mfxyf fvzí rj mf inhmt -inot Xfshmt- qt mj
jsyjsinit rzd gnjs, ujwt, hts ytit jxt, vzjwwíf vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj
xtwgnjxj zsf izif vzj fltwf js jxyj uzsyt rj mf ajsnit f qf rjrtwnf.

-Fxtqanjxj vznjwjx ijhnw, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-. In js gzjs mtwf, vzj
dt wjxutsijwé qt vzj xzunjwj.

-Iílfrj, xjñtw -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt-: jxtx Ozqntx t Fltxytx, d ytitx jxtx
hfgfqqjwtx mfefñtxtx vzj mf inhmt, vzj df xts rzjwytx, ¿iósij jxyás fltwf?

-Qtx ljsynqjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- xns izif jxyás js jq nsknjwst; qtx
hwnxynfstx, xn kzjwts gzjstx hwnxynfstx, t jxyás js jq uzwlfytwnt t js jq
hnjqt.

-Jxyá gnjs -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt xjufrtx fmtwf: jxfx xjuzqyzwfx itsij jxyás
qtx hzjwutx ijxtx xjñtwfetx, ¿ynjsjs ijqfsyj ij xí qárufwfx ij uqfyf, t
jxyás fitwsfifx qfx ufwjijx ij xzx hfunqqfx ij rzqjyfx, ij rtwyfofx, ij
hfgjqqjwfx, ij unjwsfx d ij totx ij hjwf? D xn ijxyt st, ¿ij vzé jxyás
fitwsfifx?

F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Qtx xjuzqhwtx ij qtx ljsynqjx kzjwts utw qf rfdtw ufwyj xzsyztxtx yjruqtx:
qfx hjsnefx ijq hzjwut ij Ozqnt Héxfw xj uzxnjwts xtgwj zsf unwárnij ij
unjiwf ij ijxrjxzwfif lwfsijef, f vznjs mtd qqfrfs js Wtrf Qf flzof ij Xfs
Ujiwt; fq jrujwfitw Fiwnfst qj xnwanó ij xjuzqyzwf zs hfxynqqt yfs lwfsij
htrt zsf gzjsf fqijf, f vznjs qqfrfwts Rtqjx Mfiwnfsn, vzj fltwf jx jq
hfxynqqt ij Xfsyásljq js Wtrf; qf wjnsf Fwyjrnxf xjuzqyó f xz rfwnit
Rfzxtqjt js zs xjuzqhwt vzj xj yzat utw zsf ij qfx xnjyj rfwfanqqfx ijq
rzsit; ujwt snslzsf ijxyfx xjuzqyzwfx sn tywfx rzhmfx vzj yzanjwts qtx
ljsynqjx xj fitwsfwts hts rtwyfofx sn hts tywfx tkwjsifx d xjñfqjx vzj
rtxywfxjs xjw xfsytx qtx vzj js jqqfx jxyfgfs xjuzqyfitx.

-F jxt atd -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. D iílfrj fltwf: ¿hzáq jx ráx: wjxzhnyfw f zs
rzjwyt, t rfyfw f zs lnlfsyj?

-Qf wjxuzjxyf jxyá js qf rfst -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: ráx jx wjxzhnyfw f
zs rzjwyt.

-Htlnit qj yjslt -inot Xfshmt-: qzjlt qf kfrf ijq vzj wjxzhnyf rzjwytx, if
anxyf f qtx hnjltx, jsijwjef qtx htotx d if xfqzi f qtx jskjwrtx, d ijqfsyj
ij xzx xjuzqyzwfx fwijs qárufwfx, d jxyás qqjsfx xzx hfunqqfx ij ljsyjx
ijatyfx vzj ij wtinqqfx fitwfs xzx wjqnvznfx, rjotw kfrf xjwá, ufwf jxyj d
ufwf jq tywt xnlqt, vzj qf vzj ijofwts d ijofwjs hzfsytx jrujwfitwjx
ljsynqjx d hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx mf mfgnit js jq rzsit.

-Yfrgnés htsknjxt jxf ajwifi -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-Uzjx jxyf kfrf, jxyfx lwfhnfx, jxyfx uwjwwtlfynafx, htrt qqfrfs f jxyt
-wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ynjsjs qtx hzjwutx d qfx wjqnvznfx ij qtx xfsytx vzj,
hts fuwtgfhnós d qnhjshnf ij szjxywf xfsyf rfiwj Nlqjxnf, ynjsjs qárufwfx,
ajqfx, rtwyfofx, rzqjyfx, unsyzwfx, hfgjqqjwfx, totx, unjwsfx, hts vzj
fzrjsyfs qf ijathnós d jslwfsijhjs xz hwnxynfsf kfrf. Qtx hzjwutx ij qtx
xfsytx t xzx wjqnvznfx qqjafs qtx wjdjx xtgwj xzx mtrgwtx, gjxfs qtx
ujifetx ij xzx mzjxtx, fitwsfs d jswnvzjhjs hts jqqtx xzx twfytwntx d xzx
ráx uwjhnfitx fqyfwjx...

-¿Vzé vznjwjx vzj nsknjwf, Xfshmt, ij ytit qt vzj mfx inhmt? -inot its
Vznotyj.

-Vznjwt ijhnw -inot Xfshmt- vzj stx ijrtx f xjw xfsytx, d fqhfsefwjrtx ráx
gwjajrjsyj qf gzjsf kfrf vzj uwjyjsijrtx; d fianjwyf, xjñtw, vzj fdjw t
fsyjx ij fdjw, vzj, xjlús mf utht xj uzjij ijhnw ijxyf rfsjwf, hfstsnefwts
t gjfynknhfwts itx kwfnqjhnytx ijxhfqetx, hzdfx hfijsfx ij mnjwwt hts vzj
hjñífs d fytwrjsyfgfs xzx hzjwutx xj ynjsj fmtwf f lwfs ajsyzwf jq gjxfwqfx
d ythfwqfx, d jxyás js ráx ajsjwfhnós vzj jxyá, xjlús inoj, qf jxufif ij
Wtqiás js qf fwrjwíf ijq wjd, szjxywt xjñtw, vzj Intx lzfwij. Fxí vzj,
xjñtw rít, ráx afqj xjw mzrnqij kwfnqjhnyt, ij hzfqvznjw twijs vzj xjf,
vzj afqnjsyj d fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt; rfx fqhfsefs hts Intx itx ithjsfx ij
inhnuqnsfx vzj itx rnq qfsefifx, twf qfx ijs f lnlfsyjx, twf f ajxynlqtx t
f jsiwnltx.

-Ytit jxt jx fxí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ujwt st ytitx utijrtx xjw
kwfnqjx, d rzhmtx xts qtx hfrnstx utw itsij qqjaf Intx f qtx xzdtx fq
hnjqt: wjqnlnós jx qf hfgfqqjwíf; hfgfqqjwtx xfsytx mfd js qf lqtwnf.

-Xí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt dt mj tíit ijhnw vzj mfd ráx kwfnqjx js jq
hnjqt vzj hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx.

-Jxt jx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- utwvzj jx rfdtw jq súrjwt ij qtx wjqnlntxtx
vzj jq ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx.

-Rzhmtx xts qtx fsifsyjx -inot Xfshmt.

-Rzhmtx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ujwt uthtx qtx vzj rjwjhjs strgwj ij
hfgfqqjwtx.

Js jxyfx d tywfx xjrjofsyjx uqáynhfx xj qjx ufxó fvzjqqf sthmj d jq iíf
xnlznjsyj, xns fhtsyjhjwqjx htxf vzj ij htsyfw kzjxj, ij vzj st utht qj
ujxó f its Vznotyj. Js kns, tywt iíf, fq fsthmjhjw, ijxhzgwnjwts qf lwfs
hnzifi ijq Ytgtxt, hts hzdf anxyf xj qj fqjlwfwts qtx jxuíwnyzx f its
Vznotyj d xj qj jsywnxyjhnjwts f Xfshmt, utwvzj st xfgíf qf hfxf ij
Izqhnsjf, sn js xz anif qf mfgíf anxyt, htrt st qf mfgíf anxyt xz xjñtw; ij
rtit vzj jq zst utw ajwqf, d jq tywt utw st mfgjwqf anxyt, jxyfgfs
fqgtwtyfitx, d st nrflnsfgf Xfshmt vzé mfgíf ij mfhjw hzfsit xz izjñt qj
jsanfxj fq Ytgtxt. Knsfqrjsyj, twijsó its Vznotyj jsywfw js qf hnzifi
jsywfif qf sthmj, d, js yfsyt vzj qf mtwf xj qqjlfgf, xj vzjifwts jsywj
zsfx jshnsfx vzj hjwhf ijq Ytgtxt jxyfgfs, d, qqjlfit jq ijyjwrnsfit uzsyt,
jsywfwts js qf hnzifi, itsij qjx xzhjinó htxfx vzj f htxfx qqjlfs.





Hfuíyzqt NC. Itsij xj hzjsyf qt vzj js éq xj ajwá


Rjinf sthmj jwf utw knqt, utht ráx f rjstx, hzfsit its Vznotyj d Xfshmt
ijofwts jq rtsyj d jsywfwts js jq Ytgtxt. Jxyfgf jq uzjgqt js zs xtxjlfit
xnqjshnt, utwvzj ytitx xzx ajhnstx itwrífs d wjutxfgfs f unjwsf yjsinif,
htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj. Jwf qf sthmj jsywjhqfwf, uzjxyt vzj vznxnjwf Xfshmt vzj
kzjwf ijq ytit jxhzwf, utw mfqqfw js xz jxhzwnifi inxhzquf ij xz xfsije. St
xj tíf js ytit jq qzlfw xnst qfiwnitx ij ujwwtx, vzj fywtsfgfs qtx tíitx ij
its Vznotyj d yzwgfgfs jq htwfeós ij Xfshmt. Ij hzfsit js hzfsit, wjgzesfgf
zs ozrjsyt, lwzñífs uzjwhtx, rfdfgfs lfytx, hzdfx athjx, ij inkjwjsyjx
xtsnitx, xj fzrjsyfgfs hts jq xnqjshnt ij qf sthmj, ytit qt hzfq yzat jq
jsfrtwfit hfgfqqjwt f rfq flüjwt; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, inot f Xfshmt:

-Xfshmt, mnot, lzíf fq ufqfhnt ij Izqhnsjf: vzneá utiwá xjw vzj qf mfqqjrtx
ijxunjwyf.

-¿F vzé ufqfhnt yjslt ij lznfw, hzjwut ijq xtq -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj js
jq vzj dt an f xz lwfsijef st jwf xnst hfxf rzd ujvzjñf?

-Ijgíf ij jxyfw wjynwfif, jsytshjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, js fqlús
ujvzjñt fufwyfrnjsyt ij xz fqháefw, xtqfeásitxj f xtqfx hts xzx itshjqqfx,
htrt jx zxt d htxyzrgwj ij qfx fqyfx xjñtwfx d uwnshjxfx.

-Xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, df vzj azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj, f ujxfw rít, vzj xjf
fqháefw qf hfxf ij rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, ¿jx mtwf éxyf utw ajsyzwf ij mfqqfw
qf uzjwyf fgnjwyf? D ¿xjwá gnjs vzj ijrtx fqifgfetx ufwf vzj stx tdfs d stx
fgwfs, rjynjsit js fqgtwtyt d wzrtw ytif qf ljsyj? ¿Afrtx utw inhmf f
qqfrfw f qf hfxf ij szjxywfx rfshjgfx, htrt mfhjs qtx fgfwwflfsfitx, vzj
qqjlfs, d qqfrfs, d jsywfs f hzfqvznjw mtwf, utw yfwij vzj xjf?

-Mfqqjrtx uwnrjwt zsf utw zsf jq fqháefw -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj
jsytshjx dt yj inwé, Xfshmt, qt vzj xjwá gnjs vzj mflfrtx. D fianjwyj,
Xfshmt, vzj dt ajt utht, t vzj fvzjq gzqyt lwfsij d xtrgwf vzj ijxij fvzí
xj ijxhzgwj qf ijgj ij mfhjw jq ufqfhnt ij Izqhnsjf.

-Uzjx lzíj azjxywf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: vzneá xjwá fxí; fzsvzj dt qt
ajwé hts qtx totx d qt ythfwé hts qfx rfstx, d fxí qt hwjjwé dt htrt hwjjw
vzj jx fmtwf ij iíf.

Lznó its Vznotyj, d, mfgnjsit fsifit htrt ithnjsytx ufxtx, int hts jq gzqyt
vzj mfhíf qf xtrgwf, d ant zsf lwfs ytwwj, d qzjlt htsthnó vzj jq yfq
jinknhnt st jwf fqháefw, xnst qf nlqjxnf uwnshnufq ijq uzjgqt. D inot:

-Hts qf nlqjxnf mjrtx ifit, Xfshmt.

-Df qt ajt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d uqjlf f Intx vzj st ijrtx hts szjxywf
xjuzqyzwf, vzj st jx gzjsf xjñfq fsifw utw qtx hnrjsyjwntx f yfqjx mtwfx, d
ráx, mfgnjsit dt inhmt f azjxywf rjwhji, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, vzj qf
hfxf ijxyf xjñtwf mf ij jxyfw js zsf hfqqjozjqf xns xfqnif.

-¡Rfqinyt xjfx ij Intx, rjsyjhfyt! -inot its Vznotyj-. ¿Fiósij mfx yú
mfqqfit vzj qtx fqháefwjx d ufqfhntx wjfqjx jxyés jinknhfitx js hfqqjozjqfx
xns xfqnif?

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, js hfif ynjwwf xz zxt: vzneá xj zxf fvzí js jq
Ytgtxt jinknhfw js hfqqjozjqfx qtx ufqfhntx d jinknhntx lwfsijx; d fxí,
xzuqnht f azjxywf rjwhji rj ijoj gzxhfw utw jxyfx hfqqjx t hfqqjozjqfx vzj
xj rj tkwjhjs: utiwíf xjw vzj js fqlús wnshós ytufxj hts jxj fqháefw, vzj
qj ajf dt htrnit ij ujwwtx, vzj fxí stx ywfj htwwnitx d fxjsijwjfitx.

-Mfgqf hts wjxujyt, Xfshmt, ij qfx htxfx ij rn xjñtwf -inot its Vznotyj-, d
yjslfrtx qf knjxyf js ufe, d st fwwtojrtx qf xtlf ywfx jq hfqijwt.

-Dt rj wjutwyfwé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; ujwt, ¿hts vzé ufhnjshnf utiwé qqjafw
vzj vznjwf azjxywf rjwhji vzj ij xtqf zsf aje vzj an qf hfxf ij szjxywf
frf, qf mfdf ij xfgjw xnjruwj d mfqqfwqf f rjinf sthmj, st mfqqásitqf
azjxywf rjwhji, vzj qf ijgj ij mfgjw anxyt rnqqfwjx ij ajhjx?

-Yú rj mfwáx ijxjxujwfw, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-. Ajs fhá, mjwjoj: ¿st yj
mj inhmt rnq ajhjx vzj js ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif st mj anxyt f qf xns
ufw Izqhnsjf, sn ofráx fywfajxé qtx zrgwfqjx ij xz ufqfhnt, d vzj xóqt
jxytd jsfrtwfit ij tíifx d ij qf lwfs kfrf vzj ynjsj ij mjwrtxf d inxhwjyf?

-Fmtwf qt tnlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d inlt vzj, uzjx azjxywf rjwhji st qf mf
anxyt, sn dt yfrutht...

-Jxt st uzjij xjw -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-; vzj, utw qt rjstx, df rj mfx inhmt
yú vzj qf anxyj fmjhmfsit ywnlt, hzfsit rj ywzonxyj qf wjxuzjxyf ij qf
hfwyf vzj qj jsané htsynlt.

-St xj fyjslf f jxt, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj qj mflt xfgjw vzj
yfrgnés kzj ij tíifx qf anxyf d qf wjxuzjxyf vzj qj ywzoj; utwvzj, fxí xé
dt vznés jx qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf htrt ifw zs uzñt js jq hnjqt.

-Xfshmt, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ynjrutx mfd ij gzwqfw, d ynjrutx
itsij hfjs d ufwjhjs rfq qfx gzwqfx. St utwvzj dt inlf vzj sn mj anxyt sn
mfgqfit f qf xjñtwf ij rn fqrf mfx yú ij ijhnw yfrgnés vzj sn qf mfx
mfgqfit sn anxyt, xnjsit yfs fq wjaéx htrt xfgjx.

Jxyfsit qtx itx js jxyfx uqáynhfx, anjwts vzj ajsíf f ufxfw utw itsij
jxyfgfs zst hts itx rzqfx, vzj, utw jq wznit vzj mfhíf jq fwfit, vzj
fwwfxywfgf utw jq xzjqt, ozelfwts vzj ijgíf ij xjw qfgwfitw, vzj mfgwíf
rfiwzlfit fsyjx ijq iíf f nw f xz qfgwfsef; d fxí kzj qf ajwifi. Ajsíf jq
qfgwfitw hfsyfsit fvzjq wtrfshj vzj inhjs:

Rfqf qf mzgnxyjx, kwfshjxjx,

js jxf ij Wtshjxafqqjx.

-Vzj rj rfyjs, Xfshmt -inot, js tdésitqj, its Vznotyj-, xn stx mf ij
xzhjijw htxf gzjsf jxyf sthmj. ¿St tdjx qt vzj anjsj hfsyfsit jxj anqqfst?

-Xí tnlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; ujwt, ¿vzé mfhj f szjxywt uwtuóxnyt qf hfef ij
Wtshjxafqqjx? Fxí uzinjwf hfsyfw jq wtrfshj ij Hfqfístx, vzj ytit kzjwf zst
ufwf xzhjijwstx gnjs t rfq js szjxywt sjlthnt.

Qqjló, js jxyt, jq qfgwfitw, f vznjs its Vznotyj uwjlzsyó:

-¿Xfgwénxrj ijhnw, gzjs frnlt, vzj gzjsf ajsyzwf tx ié Intx, iósij xts utw
fvzí qtx ufqfhntx ij qf xns ufw uwnshjxf itñf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt?

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq rtet-, dt xtd ktwfxyjwt d mf uthtx iífx vzj jxytd js
jxyj uzjgqt, xnwanjsit f zs qfgwfitw wnht js qf qfgwfsef ijq hfrut; js jxf
hfxf kwtsyjwf anajs jq hzwf d jq xfhwnxyás ijq qzlfw; jsywfrgtx, t
hzfqvznjw ijqqtx, xfgwá ifw f azjxywf rjwhji wfeós ijxf xjñtwf uwnshjxf,
utwvzj ynjsjs qf qnxyf ij ytitx qtx ajhnstx ijq Ytgtxt; fzsvzj ufwf rí
yjslt vzj js ytit éq st anaj uwnshjxf fqlzsf; rzhmfx xjñtwfx, xí,
uwnshnufqjx, vzj hfif zsf js xz hfxf uzjij xjw uwnshjxf.

-Uzjx jsywj éxfx -inot its Vznotyj- ijgj ij jxyfw, frnlt, éxyf utw vznjs yj
uwjlzsyt.

-Utiwíf xjw -wjxutsinó jq rtet-; d finóx, vzj df anjsj jq fqgf.

D, ifsit f xzx rzqfx, st fyjsinó f ráx uwjlzsyfx. Xfshmt, vzj ant xzxujsxt
f xz xjñtw d fxfe rfq htsyjsyt, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, df xj anjsj f ráx fsifw jq iíf, d st xjwá fhjwyfit ijofw vzj stx
mfqqj jq xtq js qf hfqqj; rjotw xjwá vzj stx xfqlfrtx kzjwf ij qf hnzifi, d
vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj jrgtxvzj js fqlzsf kqtwjxyf fvzí hjwhfsf, d dt
atqajwé ij iíf, d st ijofwé txyzlt js ytit jxyj qzlfw itsij st gzxvzj qf
hfxf, fqháefw t ufqfhnt ij rn xjñtwf, d fxfe xjwíf ij ijxinhmfit xn st qj
mfqqfxj; d, mfqqásitqj, mfgqfwé hts xz rjwhji, d qj inwé iósij d hórt vzjif
azjxywf rjwhji jxujwfsit vzj qj ié twijs d ywfef ufwf ajwqf, xns rjstxhfgt
ij xz mtswf d kfrf.

-Mfx inhmt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, rnq xjsyjshnfx jshjwwfifx js jq
híwhzqt ij gwjajx ufqfgwfx: jq htsxjot vzj fmtwf rj mfx ifit qj fujyjeht d
wjhngt ij gtsíxnrf lfsf. Ajs, mnot, d afrtx f gzxhfw itsij rj jrgtxvzj, vzj
yú atqajwáx, htrt inhjx, f gzxhfw, f ajw d mfgqfw f rn xjñtwf, ij hzdf
inxhwjhnós d htwyjxíf jxujwt ráx vzj rnqflwtxtx kfatwjx.

Wfgnfgf Xfshmt utw xfhfw f xz frt ijq uzjgqt, utwvzj st fajwnlzfxj qf
rjsynwf ij qf wjxuzjxyf vzj ij ufwyj ij Izqhnsjf qj mfgíf qqjafit f Xnjwwf
Rtwjsf; d fxí, int uwnjxf f qf xfqnif, vzj kzj qzjlt, d f itx rnqqfx ijq
qzlfw mfqqfwts zsf kqtwjxyf t gtxvzj, itsij its Vznotyj xj jrgtxhó js yfsyt
vzj Xfshmt atqaíf f qf hnzifi f mfgqfw f Izqhnsjf; js hzdf jrgfofif qj
xzhjinjwts htxfx vzj unijs szjaf fyjshnós d szjat hwéinyt.





Hfuíyzqt C. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf nsizxywnf vzj Xfshmt yzat ufwf jshfsyfw f qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, d ij tywtx xzhjxtx yfs wniíhzqtx htrt ajwifijwtx


Qqjlfsit jq fzytw ijxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf f htsyfw qt vzj js jxyj hfuíyzqt
hzjsyf, inhj vzj vznxnjwf ufxfwqj js xnqjshnt, yjrjwtxt ij vzj st mfgíf ij
xjw hwjíit, utwvzj qfx qthzwfx ij its Vznotyj qqjlfwts fvzí fq yéwrnst d
wfdf ij qfx rfdtwjx vzj uzjijs nrflnsfwxj, d fzs ufxfwts itx ynwtx ij
gfqqjxyf ráx fqqá ij qfx rfdtwjx. Knsfqrjsyj, fzsvzj hts jxyj rnjit d
wjhjqt, qfx jxhwngnó ij qf rnxrf rfsjwf vzj éq qfx mnet, xns fñfinw sn
vznyfw f qf mnxytwnf zs áytrt ij qf ajwifi, xns iáwxjqj sfif utw qfx
tgojhntsjx vzj utiífs utsjwqj ij rjsynwtxt. D yzat wfeós, utwvzj qf ajwifi
fijqlfef d st vznjgwf, d xnjruwj fsif xtgwj qf rjsynwf htrt jq fhjnyj xtgwj
jq flzf.

D fxí, uwtxnlznjsit xz mnxytwnf, inhj vzj, fxí htrt its Vznotyj xj jrgtxhó
js qf kqtwjxyf, jshnsfw t xjqaf ozsyt fq lwfs Ytgtxt, rfsió f Xfshmt atqajw
f qf hnzifi, d vzj st atqanjxj f xz uwjxjshnf xns mfgjw uwnrjwt mfgqfit ij
xz ufwyj f xz xjñtwf, uninésitqf kzjxj xjwanif ij ijofwxj ajw ij xz hfzynat
hfgfqqjwt, d xj inlsfxj ij jhmfwqj xz gjsinhnós, ufwf vzj uzinjxj jxujwfw
utw jqqf kjqnhíxnrtx xzhjxtx ij ytitx xzx fhtrjynrnjsytx d inknhzqytxfx
jruwjxfx. Jshfwlóxj Xfshmt ij mfhjwqt fxí htrt xj qj rfsifgf, d ij ywfjwqj
yfs gzjsf wjxuzjxyf htrt qj ywzot qf aje uwnrjwf.

-Fsif, mnot -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, d st yj yzwgjx hzfsit yj anjwjx fsyj qf
qze ijq xtq ij mjwrtxzwf vzj afx f gzxhfw. ¡Inhmtxt yú xtgwj ytitx qtx
jxhzijwtx ijq rzsit! Yjs rjrtwnf, d st xj yj ufxj ijqqf hórt yj wjhngj: xn
rzif qfx htqtwjx jq ynjrut vzj qf jxyzanjwjx ifsit rn jrgfofif; xn xj
ijxfxtxnjlf d yzwgf tdjsit rn strgwj; xn st hfgj js qf fqrtmfif, xn fhfxt
qf mfqqfx xjsyfif js jq jxywfit wnht ij xz fzytwnifi; d xn jxyá js unj,
ríwfqf xn xj utsj fmtwf xtgwj jq zst, fmtwf xtgwj jq tywt unj; xn yj wjunyj
qf wjxuzjxyf vzj yj injwj itx t ywjx ajhjx; xn qf rzif ij gqfsif js áxujwf,
ij fhjif js frtwtxf; xn qjafsyf qf rfst fq hfgjqqt ufwf htrutsjwqj, fzsvzj
st jxyé ijxtwijsfit; knsfqrjsyj, mnot, rnwf ytifx xzx fhhntsjx d
rtanrnjsytx; utwvzj xn yú rj qtx wjqfyfwjx htrt jqqtx kzjwts, xfhfwé dt qt
vzj jqqf ynjsj jxhtsinit js qt xjhwjyt ij xz htwfeós fhjwhf ij qt vzj fq
kjhmt ij rnx frtwjx ythf; vzj mfx ij xfgjw, Xfshmt, xn st qt xfgjx, vzj
jsywj qtx frfsyjx, qfx fhhntsjx d rtanrnjsytx jcyjwntwjx vzj rzjxywfs,
hzfsit ij xzx frtwjx xj ywfyf, xts hjwyíxnrtx htwwjtx vzj ywfjs qfx szjafx
ij qt vzj fqqá js qt nsyjwntw ijq fqrf ufxf. Aj, frnlt, d lzíjyj tywf rjotw
ajsyzwf vzj qf ríf, d azéqafyj tywt rjotw xzhjxt ijq vzj dt vzjit yjrnjsit
d jxujwfsit js jxyf frfwlf xtqjifi js vzj rj ijofx.

-Dt nwé d atqajwé uwjxyt -inot Xfshmt-; d jsxfshmj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw
rít, jxj htwfetshnqqt, vzj qj ijgj ij yjsjw fltwf st rfdtw vzj zsf
fajqqfsf, d htsxnijwj vzj xj xzjqj ijhnw vzj gzjs htwfeós vzjgwfsyf rfqf
ajsyzwf, d vzj itsij st mfd ythnstx, st mfd jxyfhfx; d yfrgnés xj inhj:
itsij st unjsxf, xfqyf qf qnjgwj. Iíltqt utwvzj xn jxyf sthmj st mfqqfrtx
qtx ufqfhntx t fqháefwjx ij rn xjñtwf, fltwf vzj jx ij iíf qtx unjsxt
mfqqfw, hzfsit rjstx qtx unjsxj, d mfqqfitx, iéojsrj f rí hts jqqf.

-Utw hnjwyt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj xnjruwj ywfjx yzx wjkwfsjx yfs
f ujqt ij qt vzj ywfyfrtx hzfsyt rj ié Intx rjotw ajsyzwf js qt vzj ijxjt.

Jxyt inhmt, atqanó Xfshmt qfx jxufqifx d afwjó xz wzhnt, d its Vznotyj xj
vzjió f hfgfqqt, ijxhfsxfsit xtgwj qtx jxywngtx d xtgwj jq fwwnrt ij xz
qfsef, qqjst ij ywnxyjx d htskzxfx nrflnsfhntsjx, itsij qj ijofwjrtx,
désitstx hts Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj st rjstx htskzxt d ujsxfynat xj fufwyó ij xz
xjñtw vzj éq vzjifgf; d yfsyt, vzj, fujsfx mzgt xfqnit ijq gtxvzj, hzfsit,
atqanjsit qf hfgjef d anjsit vzj its Vznotyj st ufwjhíf, xj fujó ijq
ozrjsyt, d, xjsyásitxj fq unj ij zs áwgtq, htrjseó f mfgqfw htsxnlt rjxrt d
f ijhnwxj:

-Xjufrtx fltwf, Xfshmt mjwrfst, fiósij af azjxf rjwhji. ¿Af f gzxhfw fqlús
ozrjsyt vzj xj qj mfdf ujwinit? ''St, utw hnjwyt''. Uzjx, ¿vzé af f gzxhfw?
''Atd f gzxhfw, htrt vznjs st inhj sfif, f zsf uwnshjxf, d js jqqf fq xtq
ij qf mjwrtxzwf d f ytit jq hnjqt ozsyt''. D ¿fiósij ujsxánx mfqqfw jxt vzj
ijhíx, Xfshmt? ''¿Fiósij? Js qf lwfs hnzifi ijq Ytgtxt''. D gnjs: ¿d ij
ufwyj ij vznés qf afnx f gzxhfw? ''Ij ufwyj ijq kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, vzj ijxkfhj qtx yzjwytx, d if ij htrjw fq vzj mf xji,
d ij gjgjw fq vzj mf mfrgwj''. Ytit jxt jxyá rzd gnjs. D ¿xfgénx xz hfxf,
Xfshmt? ''Rn frt inhj vzj mfs ij xjw zstx wjfqjx ufqfhntx t zstx xtgjwgntx
fqháefwjx''. D ¿mfgénxqf anxyt fqlús iíf utw ajsyzwf? ''Sn dt sn rn frt qf
mfgjrtx anxyt ofráx''. D ¿ufwéhjtx vzj kzjwf fhjwyfit d gnjs mjhmt vzj xn
qtx ijq Ytgtxt xzunjxjs vzj jxyánx atx fvzí hts nsyjshnós ij nw f
xtsxfhfwqjx xzx uwnshjxfx d f ijxfxtxjlfwqjx xzx ifrfx, ansnjxjs d tx
rtqnjxjs qfx htxynqqfx f uzwtx ufqtx, d st tx ijofxjs mzjxt xfst? ''Js
ajwifi vzj yjsiwífs rzhmf wfeós, hzfsit st htsxnijwfxjs vzj xtd rfsifit, d
vzj rjsxfojwt xtnx, frnlt, st rjwjhénx hzquf, sts''. St tx knénx js jxt,
Xfshmt, utwvzj qf ljsyj rfshmjlf jx yfs htqéwnhf htrt mtswfif, d st
htsxnjsyj htxvznqqfx ij sfinj. Anaj Intx vzj xn tx mzjqj, vzj tx rfsit rfqf
ajsyzwf. ''¡Tcyj, uzyt! ¡Fqqá ifwáx, wfdt! ¡St, xnst ásijrj dt gzxhfsit
ywjx unjx fq lfyt utw jq lzxyt fojst! D ráx, vzj fxí xjwá gzxhfw f Izqhnsjf
utw jq Ytgtxt htrt f Rfwnhf utw Wáajsf, t fq gfhmnqqjw js Xfqfrfshf. ¡Jq
infgqt, jq infgqt rj mf rjynit f rí js jxyt, vzj tywt st!''

Jxyj xtqnqtvznt ufxó htsxnlt Xfshmt, d qt vzj xfhó iéq kzj vzj atqanó f
ijhnwxj:

-Fmtwf gnjs, ytifx qfx htxfx ynjsjs wjrjint, xn st jx qf rzjwyj, ijgfot ij
hzdt dzlt mjrtx ij ufxfw ytitx, rfq vzj stx ujxj, fq fhfgfw ij qf anif.
Jxyj rn frt, utw rnq xjñfqjx, mj anxyt vzj jx zs qtht ij fyfw, d fzs
yfrgnés dt st qj vzjit js eflf, uzjx xtd ráx rjsyjhfyt vzj éq, uzjx qj xnlt
d qj xnwat, xn jx ajwifijwt jq wjkwás vzj inhj: "Inrj hts vznés fsifx,
ijhnwyj mj vznés jwjx", d jq tywt ij "St hts vznjs sfhjx, xnst hts vznjs
ufhjx". Xnjsit, uzjx, qtht, htrt qt jx, d ij qthzwf vzj qfx ráx ajhjx ytrf
zsfx htxfx utw tywfx, d ozelf qt gqfsht utw sjlwt d qt sjlwt utw gqfsht,
htrt xj ufwjhnó hzfsit inot vzj qtx rtqnstx ij anjsyt jwfs lnlfsyjx, d qfx
rzqfx ij qtx wjqnlntxtx iwtrjifwntx, d qfx rfsfifx ij hfwsjwtx joéwhnytx ij
jsjrnltx, d tywfx rzhmfx htxfx f jxyj ytst, st xjwá rzd inkíhnq mfhjwqj
hwjjw vzj zsf qfgwfitwf, qf uwnrjwf vzj rj ytufwj utw fvzí, jx qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf; d, hzfsit éq st qt hwjf, ozwfwé dt; d xn éq ozwfwj, ytwsfwé dt f
ozwfw; d xn utwknfwj, utwknfwé dt ráx, d ij rfsjwf vzj yjslt ij yjsjw qf
ríf xnjruwj xtgwj jq mnyt, ajslf qt vzj ansnjwj. Vzneá hts jxyf utwkíf
fhfgfwé hts éq vzj st rj jsaíj tywf aje f xjrjofsyjx rjsxfojwífx, anjsit
hzás rfq wjhfit qj ywfnlt ijqqfx, t vzneá ujsxfwá, htrt dt nrflnst, vzj
fqlús rfq jshfsyfitw ij jxytx vzj éq inhj vzj qj vznjwjs rfq qf mfgwá
rzifit qf knlzwf utw mfhjwqj rfq d ifñt.

Hts jxyt vzj ujsxó Xfshmt Ufsef vzjió xtxjlfit xz jxuíwnyz, d yzat utw gnjs
fhfgfit xz sjlthnt, d ijyjsnésitxj fqqí mfxyf qf yfwij, utw ifw qzlfw f vzj
its Vznotyj ujsxfxj vzj qj mfgíf yjsnit ufwf nw d atqajw ijq Ytgtxt; d
xzhjinóqj ytit yfs gnjs vzj, hzfsit xj qjafsyó ufwf xzgnw js jq wzhnt, ant
vzj ijq Ytgtxt mfhnf itsij éq jxyfgf ajsífs ywjx qfgwfitwfx xtgwj ywjx
utqqnstx, t utqqnsfx, vzj jq fzytw st qt ijhqfwf, fzsvzj ráx xj uzjij hwjjw
vzj jwfs gtwwnhfx, utw xjw twinsfwnf hfgfqqjwíf ij qfx fqijfsfx; ujwt, htrt
st af rzhmt js jxyt, st mfd ufwf vzé ijyjsjwstx js fajwnlzfwqt. Js
wjxtqzhnós: fxí htrt Xfshmt ant f qfx qfgwfitwfx, f ufxt ynwfit atqanó f
gzxhfw f xz xjñtw its Vznotyj, d mfqqóqj xzxunwfsit d inhnjsit rnq frtwtxfx
qfrjsyfhntsjx. Htrt its Vznotyj qj ant, qj inot:

-¿Vzé mfd, Xfshmt frnlt? ¿Utiwé xjñfqfw jxyj iíf hts unjiwf gqfshf, t hts
sjlwf?

-Rjotw xjwá -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj azjxf rjwhji qj xjñfqj hts fqrflwj, htrt
wéyzqtx ij háyjiwfx, utwvzj qj jhmjs gnjs ij ajw qtx vzj qj anjwjs.

-Ij jxj rtit -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, gzjsfx szjafx ywfjx.

-Yfs gzjsfx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st ynjsj ráx vzj mfhjw azjxf rjwhji
xnst unhfw f Wthnsfsyj d xfqnw f qt wfxt f ajw f qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, vzj hts tywfx itx itshjqqfx xzdfx anjsj f ajw f azjxf rjwhji.

-¡Xfsyt Intx! ¿Vzé jx qt vzj inhjx, Xfshmt frnlt? -inot its Vznotyj-. Rnwf
st rj jslfñjx, sn vznjwfx hts kfqxfx fqjlwífx fqjlwfw rnx ajwifijwfx
ywnxyjefx.

-¿Vzé xfhfwíf dt ij jslfñfw f azjxf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d ráx
jxyfsit yfs hjwhf ij ijxhzgwnw rn ajwifi? Unvzj, xjñtw, d ajslf, d ajwá
ajsnw f qf uwnshjxf, szjxywf frf, ajxynif d fitwsfif, js kns, htrt vznjs
jqqf jx. Xzx itshjqqfx d jqqf ytifx xts zsf fxhzf ij twt, ytifx rfetwhfx ij
ujwqfx, ytifx xts infrfsyjx, ytifx wzgíjx, ytifx yjqfx ij gwthfit ij ráx ij
inje fqytx; qtx hfgjqqtx, xzjqytx utw qfx jxufqifx, vzj xts tywtx yfsytx
wfdtx ijq xtq vzj fsifs ozlfsit hts jq anjsyt; d, xtgwj ytit, anjsjs f
hfgfqqt xtgwj ywjx hfsfsjfx wjrjsififx, vzj st mfd ráx vzj ajw.

-Mfhfsjfx vzjwwáx ijhnw, Xfshmt.

-Uthf inkjwjshnf mfd -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- ij hfsfsjfx f mfhfsjfx; ujwt,
ajslfs xtgwj qt vzj ansnjwjs, jqqfx anjsjs qfx ráx lfqfsfx xjñtwfx vzj xj
uzjifs ijxjfw, jxujhnfqrjsyj qf uwnshjxf Izqhnsjf, rn xjñtwf, vzj ufxrf qtx
xjsynitx.

-Afrtx, Xfshmt mnot -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d, js fqgwnhnfx ijxyfx st
jxujwfifx htrt gzjsfx szjafx, yj rfsit jq rjotw ijxutot vzj lfsfwj js qf
uwnrjwf fajsyzwf vzj yzanjwj, d xn jxyt st yj htsyjsyf, yj rfsit qfx hwífx
vzj jxyj fñt rj injwjs qfx ywjx djlzfx rífx, vzj yú xfgjx vzj vzjifs ufwf
ufwnw js jq uwfit htshjonq ij szjxywt uzjgqt.

-F qfx hwífx rj fyjslt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj ij xjw gzjstx qtx
ijxutotx ij qf uwnrjwf fajsyzwf st jxyá rzd hnjwyt.

Df js jxyt xfqnjwts ij qf xjqaf, d ijxhzgwnjwts hjwhf f qfx ywjx fqijfsfx.
Yjsinó its Vznotyj qtx totx utw ytit jq hfrnst ijq Ytgtxt, d htrt st ant
xnst f qfx ywjx qfgwfitwfx, yzwgóxj ytit, d uwjlzsyó f Xfshmt xn qfx mfgíf
ijofit kzjwf ij qf hnzifi.

-¿Hórt kzjwf ij qf hnzifi? -wjxutsinó-. ¿Utw ajsyzwf ynjsj azjxf rjwhji qtx
totx js jq htqtiwnqqt, vzj st ajj vzj xts éxyfx, qfx vzj fvzí anjsjs,
wjxuqfsijhnjsyjx htrt jq rnxrt xtq f rjintiíf?

-Dt st ajt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, xnst f ywjx qfgwfitwfx xtgwj ywjx
gtwwnhtx.

-¡Fltwf rj qngwj Intx ijq infgqt! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. D ¿jx utxngqj vzj
ywjx mfhfsjfx, t htrt xj qqfrfs, gqfshfx htrt jq frut ij qf snjaj, qj
ufwjehfs f azjxf rjwhji gtwwnhtx? ¡Anaj jq Xjñtw, vzj rj ujqj jxyfx gfwgfx
xn yfq kzjxj ajwifi!

-Uzjx dt yj inlt, Xfshmt frnlt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj jx yfs ajwifi vzj
xts gtwwnhtx, t gtwwnhfx, htrt dt xtd its Vznotyj d yú Xfshmt Ufsef; f qt
rjstx, f rí yfqjx rj ufwjhjs.

-Hfqqj, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, st inlf qf yfq ufqfgwf, xnst ijxufgnqj jxtx
totx, d ajslf f mfhjw wjajwjshnf f qf xjñtwf ij xzx ujsxfrnjsytx, vzj df
qqjlf hjwhf.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj fijqfsyó f wjhjgnw f qfx ywjx fqijfsfx; d, fujásitxj
ijq wzhnt, yzat ijq hfgjxywt fq ozrjsyt ij zsf ij qfx ywjx qfgwfitwfx, d,
mnshfsit frgfx wtinqqfx js jq xzjqt, inot:

-Wjnsf d uwnshjxf d izvzjxf ij qf mjwrtxzwf, azjxywf fqynaje d lwfsijef xjf
xjwanif ij wjhjgnw js xz lwfhnf d gzjs yfqjsyj fq hfzynat hfgfqqjwt
azjxywt, vzj fqqí jxyá mjhmt unjiwf ráwrtq, ytit yzwgfit d xns uzqxtx ij
ajwxj fsyj azjxywf rflsíknhf uwjxjshnf. Dt xtd Xfshmt Ufsef, xz jxhzijwt, d
éq jx jq fxjsijwjfit hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, qqfrfit utw tywt
strgwj jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf.

F jxyf xfeós, df xj mfgíf uzjxyt its Vznotyj ij mnstotx ozsyt f Xfshmt, d
rnwfgf hts totx ijxjshfofitx d anxyf yzwgfif f qf vzj Xfshmt qqfrfgf wjnsf
d xjñtwf, d, htrt st ijxhzgwíf js jqqf xnst zsf rtef fqijfsf, d st ij rzd
gzjs wtxywt, utwvzj jwf hfwnwwjitsif d hmfyf, jxyfgf xzxujsxt d firnwfit,
xns txfw ijxuqjlfw qtx qfgntx. Qfx qfgwfitwfx jxyfgfs fxnrnxrt fyósnyfx,
anjsit fvzjqqtx itx mtrgwjx yfs inkjwjsyjx mnshfitx ij wtinqqfx, vzj st
ijofgfs ufxfw fijqfsyj f xz htrufñjwf; ujwt, wtrunjsit jq xnqjshnt qf
ijyjsnif, ytif ijxlwfhnfif d rtmísf, inot:

-Fuáwyjsxj stwf js yfq ijq hfrnst, d iéojsrtx ufxfw, vzj afrtx ij uwnjxf.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-¡Tm uwnshjxf d xjñtwf zsnajwxfq ijq Ytgtxt! ¿Hórt azjxywt rflsásnrt
htwfeós st xj jsyjwsjhj anjsit fwwtinqqfit fsyj azjxywf xzgqnrfif uwjxjshnf
f qf htqzsf d xzxyjsyt ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf?

Tdjsit qt hzfq, tywf ij qfx itx inot:

-Rfx, ¡ot, vzj yj jxywjlt, gzwwf ij rn xzjlwt! ¡Rnwfi hts vzé xj anjsjs qtx
xjñtwnytx fmtwf f mfhjw gzwqf ij qfx fqijfsfx, htrt xn fvzí st xzunéxjrtx
jhmfw uzqqfx htrt jqqtx! Afdfs xz hfrnst, j iéojsrtx mfhjw jq szjxt, d
xjwqjx mf xfst.

-Qjaásyfyj, Xfshmt -inot f jxyj uzsyt its Vznotyj-, vzj df ajt vzj qf
Ktwyzsf, ij rn rfq st mfwyf, ynjsj ytrfitx qtx hfrnstx ytitx utw itsij
uzjif ajsnw fqlús htsyjsyt f jxyf ásnrf rjevznsf vzj yjslt js qfx hfwsjx. D
yú, ¡tm jxywjrt ijq afqtw vzj uzjij ijxjfwxj, yéwrnst ij qf mzrfsf
ljsynqjef, úsnht wjrjint ijxyj fkqnlnit htwfeós vzj yj fitwf!, df vzj jq
rfqnlst jshfsyfitw rj ujwxnlzj, d mf uzjxyt szgjx d hfyfwfyfx js rnx totx,
d ufwf xóqt jqqtx d st ufwf tywtx mf rzifit d ywfsxktwrfit yz xns nlzfq
mjwrtxzwf d wtxywt js jq ij zsf qfgwfitwf utgwj, xn df yfrgnés jq rít st qj
mf hfrgnfit js jq ij fqlús ajxynlqt, ufwf mfhjwqj fgtwwjhngqj f yzx totx,
st ijojx ij rnwfwrj gqfsif d frtwtxfrjsyj, jhmfsit ij ajw js jxyf xzrnxnós
d fwwtinqqfrnjsyt vzj f yz htsywfmjhmf mjwrtxzwf mflt, qf mzrnqifi hts vzj
rn fqrf yj fitwf.

-¡Ytrá vzj rn flüjqt! -wjxutsinó qf fqijfsf-. ¡Frnlznyf xtd dt ij tíw
wjxvzjgwfotx! Fuáwyjsxj d iéojsrtx nw, d flwfijhéwxjqt mjrtx.

Fufwyóxj Xfshmt d ijoóqf nw, htsyjsyíxnrt ij mfgjw xfqnit gnjs ij xz
jswjit.

Fujsfx xj ant qngwj qf fqijfsf vzj mfgíf mjhmt qf knlzwf ij Izqhnsjf,
hzfsit, unhfsit f xz hfsfsjf hts zs flznoós vzj js zs ufqt ywfíf, int f
htwwjw utw jq uwfit fijqfsyj. D, htrt qf gtwwnhf xjsyíf qf uzsyf ijq
flznoós, vzj qj kfynlfgf ráx ij qt twinsfwnt, htrjseó f ifw htwhtatx, ij
rfsjwf vzj int hts qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf js ynjwwf; qt hzfq anxyt utw its
Vznotyj, fhzinó f qjafsyfwqf, d Xfshmt f htrutsjw d hnshmfw jq fqgfwif, vzj
yfrgnés anst f qf gfwwnlf ij qf utqqnsf. Fhtrtifif, uzjx, qf fqgfwif, d
vznwnjsit its Vznotyj qjafsyfw f xz jshfsyfif xjñtwf js qtx gwfetx xtgwj qf
ozrjsyf, qf xjñtwf, qjafsyásitxj ijq xzjqt, qj vznyó ij fvzjq ywfgfot,
utwvzj, mfhnésitxj fqlús yfsyt fywáx, ytró zsf htwwninhf, d, uzjxyfx frgfx
rfstx xtgwj qfx fshfx ij qf utqqnsf, int hts xz hzjwut, ráx qnljwt vzj zs
mfqhós, xtgwj qf fqgfwif, d vzjió f mtwhfofifx, htrt xn kzjwf mtrgwj; d
jsytshjx inot Xfshmt:

-¡Anaj Wtvzj, vzj jx qf xjñtwf szjxywf frf ráx qnljwf vzj zs fhtyás, d vzj
uzjij jsxjñfw f xzgnw f qf onsjyf fq ráx injxywt htwitgéx t rjonhfst! Jq
fweós ywfxjwt ij qf xnqqf ufxó ij zs xfqyt, d xns jxuzjqfx mfhj htwwjw qf
mfhfsjf htrt zsf hjgwf. D st qj afs js eflf xzx itshjqqfx; vzj ytifx htwwjs
htrt jq anjsyt.

D fxí jwf qf ajwifi, utwvzj, js anésitxj f hfgfqqt Izqhnsjf, ytifx unhfwts
ywfx jqqf d inxufwfwts f htwwjw, xns atqajw qf hfgjef fywáx utw jxufhnt ij
ráx ij rjinf qjlzf. Xnlznóqfx its Vznotyj hts qf anxyf, d, hzfsit ant vzj
st ufwjhífs, atqanésitxj f Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Xfshmt, ¿vzé yj ufwjhj hzás rfqvznxyt xtd ij jshfsyfitwjx? D rnwf mfxyf
iósij xj jxynjsij xz rfqnhnf d qf tojwnef vzj rj ynjsjs, uzjx rj mfs
vzjwnit uwnafw ijq htsyjsyt vzj uzinjwf ifwrj ajw js xz xjw f rn xjñtwf. Js
jkjhyt, dt sfhí ufwf jojruqt ij ijxinhmfitx, d ufwf xjw gqfsht d yjwwjwt
itsij ytrjs qf rnwf d fxnjxyjs qfx kqjhmfx ij qf rfqf ktwyzsf. D mfx
yfrgnés ij fiajwynw, Xfshmt, vzj st xj htsyjsyfwts jxytx ywfnitwjx ij mfgjw
azjqyt d ywfsxktwrfit f rn Izqhnsjf, xnst vzj qf ywfsxktwrfwts d atqanjwts
js zsf knlzwf yfs gfof d yfs kjf htrt qf ij fvzjqqf fqijfsf, d ozsyfrjsyj
qj vznyfwts qt vzj jx yfs xzdt ij qfx uwnshnufqjx xjñtwfx, vzj jx jq gzjs
tqtw, utw fsifw xnjruwj jsywj árgfwjx d jsywj kqtwjx. Utwvzj yj mflt xfgjw,
Xfshmt, vzj hzfsit qqjlé f xzgnw f Izqhnsjf xtgwj xz mfhfsjf, xjlús yú
inhjx, vzj f rí rj ufwjhnó gtwwnhf, rj int zs tqtw ij fotx hwzitx, vzj rj
jshfqfgwnsó d fytxnló jq fqrf.

-¡Tm hfsfqqf! -lwnyó f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt- ¡Tm jshfsyfitwjx fhnfltx d
rfqnsyjshntsfitx, d vznés tx anjwf f ytitx jsxfwyfitx utw qfx flfqqfx, htrt
xfwinsfx js qjwhmf! Rzhmt xfgénx, rzhmt utiénx d rzhmt ráx mfhénx. Gfxyfwtx
ijgnjwf, gjqqfhtx, mfgjw rzifit qfx ujwqfx ij qtx totx ij rn xjñtwf js
flfqqfx fqhtwstvzjñfx, d xzx hfgjqqtx ij twt uzwíxnrt js hjwifx ij htqf ij
gzjd gjwrjot, d, knsfqrjsyj, ytifx xzx kfhntsjx ij gzjsfx js rfqfx, xns vzj
qj ytháwfijx js jq tqtw; vzj utw éq xnvznjwf xfháwfrtx qt vzj jxyfgf
jshzgnjwyt ijgfot ij fvzjqqf kjf htwyjef; fzsvzj, ufwf ijhnw ajwifi, szshf
dt an xz kjfqifi, xnst xz mjwrtxzwf, f qf hzfq xzgíf ij uzsyt d vznqfyjx zs
qzsfw vzj yjsíf xtgwj jq qfgnt ijwjhmt, f rfsjwf ij gnltyj, hts xnjyj t
thmt hfgjqqtx wzgntx htrt mjgwfx ij twt d qfwltx ij ráx ij zs ufqrt.

-F jxj qzsfw -inot its Vznotyj-, xjlús qf htwwjxutsijshnf vzj ynjsjs jsywj
xí qtx ijq wtxywt hts qtx ijq hzjwut, mf ij yjsjw tywt Izqhnsjf js qf yfgqf
ijq rzxqt vzj htwwjxutsij fq qfit itsij ynjsj jq ijq wtxywt, ujwt rzd
qzjsltx ufwf qzsfwjx xts ujqtx ij qf lwfsijef vzj mfx xnlsnknhfit.

-Uzjx dt xé ijhnw f azjxywf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj qj ufwjhífs fqqí
htrt sfhnitx.

-Dt qt hwjt, frnlt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj snslzsf htxf uzxt qf
sfyzwfqjef js Izqhnsjf vzj st kzjxj ujwkjhyf d gnjs fhfgfif; d fxí, xn
yzanjwf hnjs qzsfwjx htrt jq vzj inhjx, js jqqf st kzjwfs qzsfwjx, xnst
qzsfx d jxywjqqfx wjxuqfsijhnjsyjx. Ujwt inrj, Xfshmt: fvzjqqf vzj f rí rj
ufwjhnó fqgfwif, vzj yú fijwjefxyj, ¿jwf xnqqf wfxf t xnqqós?

-St jwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- xnst xnqqf f qf onsjyf, hts zsf hzgnjwyf ij
hfrut vzj afqj qf rnyfi ij zs wjnst, xjlús jx ij wnhf.

-¡D vzj st anjxj dt ytit jxt, Xfshmt! -inot its Vznotyj-. Fmtwf ytwst f
ijhnw, d inwé rnq ajhjx, vzj xtd jq ráx ijxinhmfit ij qtx mtrgwjx.

Mfwyt yjsíf vzj mfhjw jq xthfwwós ij Xfshmt js inxnrzqfw qf wnxf, tdjsit
qfx xfsijhjx ij xz frt, yfs ijqnhfifrjsyj jslfñfit. Knsfqrjsyj, ijxuzéx ij
tywfx rzhmfx wfetsjx vzj jsywj qtx itx ufxfwts, atqanjwts f xzgnw js xzx
gjxynfx, d xnlznjwts jq hfrnst ij Efwfltef, fitsij ujsxfgfs qqjlfw f ynjrut
vzj uzinjxjs mfqqfwxj js zsfx xtqjsjx knjxyfx vzj js fvzjqqf nsxnlsj hnzifi
hfif fñt xzjqjs mfhjwxj. Ujwt, fsyjx vzj fqqá qqjlfxjs, qjx xzhjinjwts
htxfx vzj, utw rzhmfx, lwfsijx d szjafx, rjwjhjs xjw jxhwnyfx d qjíifx,
htrt xj ajwá fijqfsyj.





Hfuíyzqt CN. Ij qf jxywfñf fajsyzwf vzj qj xzhjinó fq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj
hts jq hfwwt, t hfwwjyf, ij Qfx Htwyjx ij qf Rzjwyj


Ujsxfynat fijráx ngf its Vznotyj utw xz hfrnst fijqfsyj, htsxnijwfsit qf
rfqf gzwqf vzj qj mfgífs mjhmt qtx jshfsyfitwjx, atqanjsit f xz xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf js qf rfqf knlzwf ij qf fqijfsf, d st nrflnsfgf vzé wjrjint
yjsiwíf ufwf atqajwqf f xz xjw uwnrjwt; d jxytx ujsxfrnjsytx qj qqjafgfs
yfs kzjwf ij xí, vzj, xns xjsynwqt, xtqyó qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj, jq hzfq,
xnsynjsit qf qngjwyfi vzj xj qj ifgf, f hfif ufxt xj ijyjsíf f ufhjw qf
ajwij djwgf ij vzj fvzjqqtx hfrutx fgzsifgfs. Ij xz jrgjqjxfrnjsyt qj
atqanó Xfshmt Ufsef, inhnésitqj:

-Xjñtw, qfx ywnxyjefx st xj mnhnjwts ufwf qfx gjxynfx, xnst ufwf qtx
mtrgwjx; ujwt xn qtx mtrgwjx qfx xnjsyjs ijrfxnfit, xj azjqajs gjxynfx:
azjxywf rjwhji xj wjutwyj, d azjqaf js xí, d htof qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj,
d fanaj d ijxunjwyj, d rzjxywj fvzjqqf lfqqfwiíf vzj htsanjsj vzj yjslfs
qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx. ¿Vzé infgqtx jx jxyt? ¿Vzé ijxhfjhnrnjsyt jx éxyj?
¿Jxyfrtx fvzí, t js Kwfshnf? Rfx vzj xj qqjaj Xfyfsáx f hzfsyfx Izqhnsjfx
mfd js jq rzsit, uzjx afqj ráx qf xfqzi ij zs xtqt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj vzj
ytitx qtx jshfsytx d ywfsxktwrfhntsjx ij qf ynjwwf.

-Hfqqf, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj hts ate st rzd ijxrfdfif-; hfqqf,
inlt, d st inlfx gqfxkjrnfx htsywf fvzjqqf jshfsyfif xjñtwf, vzj ij xz
ijxlwfhnf d ijxajsyzwf dt xtqt yjslt qf hzquf: ij qf nsaninf vzj rj ynjsjs
qtx rfqtx mf sfhnit xz rfqf fsifsef.

-Fxí qt inlt dt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: vznjs qf anit d qf ajj fmtwf, ¿hzáq jx
jq htwfeós vzj st qqtwf?

-Jxt uzjijx yú ijhnw gnjs, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, uzjx qf anxyj js
qf jsyjwjef hfgfq ij xz mjwrtxzwf, vzj jq jshfsyt st xj jxyjsinó f yzwgfwyj
qf anxyf sn f jshzgwnwyj xz gjqqjef: htsywf rí xtqt d htsywf rnx totx xj
jsijwjef qf kzjwef ij xz ajsjst. Rfx, hts ytit jxyt, mj hfíit, Xfshmt, js
zsf htxf, d jx vzj rj unsyfxyj rfq xz mjwrtxzwf, utwvzj, xn rfq st rj
fhzjwit, inonxyj vzj yjsíf qtx totx ij ujwqfx, d qtx totx vzj ufwjhjs ij
ujwqfx fsyjx xts ij gjxzlt vzj ij ifrf; d, f qt vzj dt hwjt, qtx ij
Izqhnsjf ijgjs xjw ij ajwijx jxrjwfqifx, wfxlfitx, hts itx hjqjxynfqjx
fwhtx vzj qjx xnwajs ij hjofx; d jxfx ujwqfx vzíyfqfx ij qtx totx d uáxfqfx
f qtx injsyjx, vzj xns izif yj ywthfxyj, Xfshmt, ytrfsit qtx totx utw qtx
injsyjx.

-Ytit uzjij xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj yfrgnés rj yzwgó f rí xz
mjwrtxzwf htrt f azjxf rjwhji xz kjfqifi. Ujwt jshtrjsiértxqt ytit f Intx,
vzj Éq jx jq xfgnitw ij qfx htxfx vzj mfs ij xzhjijw js jxyj afqqj ij
qálwnrfx, js jxyj rfq rzsit vzj yjsjrtx, itsij fujsfx xj mfqqf htxf vzj
jxyé xns rjehqf ij rfqifi, jrgzxyj d gjqqfvzjwíf. Ij zsf htxf rj ujxf,
xjñtw rít, ráx vzj ij tywfx; vzj jx ujsxfw vzé rjint xj mf ij yjsjw hzfsit
azjxf rjwhji ajsef f fqlús lnlfsyj t tywt hfgfqqjwt, d qj rfsij vzj xj afdf
f uwjxjsyfw fsyj qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf: ¿fiósij qf mf ij
mfqqfw jxyj utgwj lnlfsyj, t jxyj utgwj d ríxjwt hfgfqqjwt ajshnit?
Ufwéhjrj vzj qtx ajt fsifw utw jq Ytgtxt mjhmtx zstx gfzxfsjx, gzxhfsit f
rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, d, fzsvzj qf jshzjsywjs js rnyfi ij qf hfqqj, st qf
htsthjwás ráx vzj f rn ufiwj.

-Vzneá, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, st xj jxyjsijwá jq jshfsyfrjsyt f
vznyfw jq htsthnrnjsyt ij Izqhnsjf f qtx ajshnitx d uwjxjsyfitx lnlfsyjx d
hfgfqqjwtx; d, js zst t itx ij qtx uwnrjwtx vzj dt ajsef d qj jsaíj,
mfwjrtx qf jcujwnjshnf xn qf ajs t st, rfsiásitqjx vzj azjqafs f ifwrj
wjqfhnós ij qt vzj fhjwhf ijxyt qjx mzgnjwj xzhjinit.

-Inlt, xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj rj mf ufwjhnit gnjs qt vzj azjxf rjwhji
mf inhmt, d vzj hts jxj fwynknhnt ajsiwjrtx js htsthnrnjsyt ij qt vzj
ijxjfrtx; d xn jx vzj jqqf f xtqt azjxf rjwhji xj jshzgwj, qf ijxlwfhnf ráx
xjwá ij azjxf rjwhji vzj xzdf; ujwt, htrt qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf yjslf xfqzi d
htsyjsyt, stxtywtx utw fhá stx fajsiwjrtx d qt ufxfwjrtx qt rjotw vzj
uzinéwjrtx, gzxhfsit szjxywfx fajsyzwfx d ijofsit fq ynjrut vzj mflf ij qfx
xzdfx, vzj éq jx jq rjotw réinht ijxyfx d ij tywfx rfdtwjx jskjwrjifijx.

Wjxutsijw vzjwíf its Vznotyj f Xfshmt Ufsef, ujwt jxytwgóxjqt zsf hfwwjyf
vzj xfqnó fq ywfaéx ijq hfrnst, hfwlfif ij qtx ráx inajwxtx d jxywfñtx
ujwxtsfojx d knlzwfx vzj uzinjwts nrflnsfwxj. Jq vzj lznfgf qfx rzqfx d
xjwaíf ij hfwwjyjwt jwf zs kjt ijrtsnt. Ajsíf qf hfwwjyf ijxhzgnjwyf fq
hnjqt fgnjwyt, xns ytqit sn efwet. Qf uwnrjwf knlzwf vzj xj tkwjhnó f qtx
totx ij its Vznotyj kzj qf ij qf rnxrf Rzjwyj, hts wtxywt mzrfst; ozsyt f
jqqf ajsíf zs ásljq hts zsfx lwfsijx d unsyfifx fqfx; fq zs qfit jxyfgf zs
jrujwfitw hts zsf htwtsf, fq ufwjhjw ij twt, js qf hfgjef; f qtx unjx ij qf
Rzjwyj jxyfgf jq intx vzj qqfrfs Hzunit, xns ajsif js qtx totx, ujwt hts xz
fwht, hfwhfo d xfjyfx. Ajsíf yfrgnés zs hfgfqqjwt fwrfit ij uzsyf js
gqfsht, jchjuyt vzj st ywfíf rtwwnós, sn hjqfif, xnst zs xtrgwjwt qqjst ij
uqzrfx ij inajwxfx htqtwjx; hts éxyfx ajsífs tywfx ujwxtsfx ij inkjwjsyjx
ywfojx d wtxywtx. Ytit qt hzfq anxyt ij nruwtanxt, js fqlzsf rfsjwf
fqgtwtyó f its Vznotyj d uzxt rnjit js jq htwfeós ij Xfshmt; rfx qzjlt xj
fqjlwó its Vznotyj, hwjdjsit vzj xj qj tkwjhíf fqlzsf szjaf d ujqnlwtxf
fajsyzwf, d hts jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt, d hts ásnrt inxuzjxyt ij fhtrjyjw
hzfqvznjw ujqnlwt, xj uzxt ijqfsyj ij qf hfwwjyf, d, hts ate fqyf d
frjsfefitwf, inot:

-Hfwwjyjwt, hthmjwt, t infgqt, t qt vzj jwjx, st yfwijx js ijhnwrj vznés
jwjx, f ió afx d vznés jx qf ljsyj vzj qqjafx js yz hfwwnhthmj, vzj ráx
ufwjhj qf gfwhf ij Hfwós vzj hfwwjyf ij qfx vzj xj zxfs.

F qt hzfq, rfsxfrjsyj, ijyjsnjsit jq Infgqt qf hfwwjyf, wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw, stxtywtx xtrtx wjhnyfsyjx ij qf htrufñíf ij Fslzqt jq Rfqt; mjrtx
mjhmt js zs qzlfw vzj jxyá ijywáx ij fvzjqqf qtrf, jxyf rfñfsf, vzj jx qf
thyfaf ijq Htwuzx, jq fzyt ij Qfx Htwyjx ij qf Rzjwyj, d mértxqj ij mfhjw
jxyf yfwij js fvzjq qzlfw vzj ijxij fvzí xj ufwjhj; d, utw jxyfw yfs hjwhf
d jxhzxfw jq ywfgfot ij ijxszifwstx d atqajwstx f ajxynw, stx afrtx
ajxynitx hts qtx rjxrtx ajxynitx vzj wjuwjxjsyfrtx. Fvzjq rfshjgt af ij
Rzjwyj; jq tywt, ij Ásljq; fvzjqqf rzojw, vzj jx qf ijq fzytw, af ij Wjnsf;
jq tywt, ij Xtqifit; fvzéq, ij Jrujwfitw, d dt, ij Ijrtsnt, d xtd zsf ij
qfx uwnshnufqjx knlzwfx ijq fzyt, utwvzj mflt js jxyf htrufñíf qtx uwnrjwtx
ufujqjx. Xn tywf htxf azjxywf rjwhji ijxjf xfgjw ij stxtywtx, uwjlúsyjrjqt,
vzj dt qj xfgwé wjxutsijw hts ytif uzsyzfqnifi; vzj, htrt xtd ijrtsnt, ytit
xj rj fqhfsef.

-Utw qf kj ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj, fxí htrt an
jxyj hfwwt, nrflnsé vzj fqlzsf lwfsij fajsyzwf xj rj tkwjhíf; d fmtwf inlt
vzj jx rjsjxyjw ythfw qfx fufwnjshnfx hts qf rfst ufwf ifw qzlfw fq
ijxjslfñt. Fsifi hts Intx, gzjsf ljsyj, d mfhji azjxywf knjxyf, d rnwfi xn
rfsiánx fqlt js vzj uzjif xjwtx ij uwtajhmt, vzj qt mfwé hts gzjs ásnrt d
gzjs yfqfsyj, utwvzj ijxij rthmfhmt kzn fknhntsfit f qf hfwáyzqf, d js rn
rthjifi xj rj ngfs qtx totx ywfx qf kfwásizqf.

Jxyfsit js jxyfx uqáynhfx, vznxt qf xzjwyj vzj qqjlfxj zst ij qf htrufñíf,
vzj ajsíf ajxynit ij gtonlfslf, hts rzhmtx hfxhfgjqjx, d js qf uzsyf ij zs
ufqt ywfíf ywjx ajonlfx ij afhf mnshmfifx; jq hzfq rtmfwwfhmt, qqjlásitxj f
its Vznotyj, htrjseó f jxlwnrnw jq ufqt d f xfhzinw jq xzjqt hts qfx
ajonlfx, d f ifw lwfsijx xfqytx, xtsfsit qtx hfxhfgjqjx, hzdf rfqf anxnós
fxí fqgtwtyó f Wthnsfsyj, vzj, xns xjw utijwtxt f ijyjsjwqj its Vznotyj,
ytrfsit jq kwjst jsywj qtx injsyjx, int f htwwjw utw jq hfrut hts ráx
qnljwjef vzj ofráx uwtrjynjwts qtx mzjxtx ij xz stytríf. Xfshmt, vzj
htsxnijwó jq ujqnlwt js vzj ngf xz frt ij xjw ijwwngfit, xfqyó ijq wzhnt,
d f ytif uwnjxf kzj f afqjwqj; ujwt, hzfsit f éq qqjló, df jxyfgf js
ynjwwf, d ozsyt f éq, Wthnsfsyj, vzj, hts xz frt, anst fq xzjqt: twinsfwnt
kns d ufwfijwt ij qfx qtefsífx ij Wthnsfsyj d ij xzx fywjanrnjsytx.

Rfx, fujsfx mzgt ijofit xz hfgfqqjwíf Xfshmt utw fhzinw f its Vznotyj,
hzfsit jq ijrtsnt gfnqfitw ij qfx ajonlfx xfqyó xtgwj jq wzhnt, d,
xfhzinésitqj hts jqqfx, jq rnjit d wznit, ráx vzj jq itqtw ij qtx ltqujx,
qj mnet atqfw utw qf hfrufñf mfhnf jq qzlfw itsij ngfs f mfhjw qf knjxyf.
Rnwfgf Xfshmt qf hfwwjwf ij xz wzhnt d qf hfíif ij xz frt, d st xfgíf f
hzáq ij qfx itx sjhjxnifijx fhzinwíf uwnrjwt; ujwt, js jkjhyt, htrt gzjs
jxhzijwt d htrt gzjs hwnfit, uzit ráx hts éq jq frtw ij xz xjñtw vzj jq
hfwnñt ij xz ozrjsyt, uzjxyt vzj hfif aje vzj ajíf qjafsyfw qfx ajonlfx js
jq fnwj d hfjw xtgwj qfx fshfx ij xz wzhnt jwfs ufwf éq yáwyfltx d xzxytx
ij rzjwyj, d fsyjx vznxnjwf vzj fvzjqqtx ltqujx xj qtx injwfs f éq js qfx
snñfx ij qtx totx vzj js jq ráx rísnrt ujqt ij qf htqf ij xz fxst. Hts jxyf
ujwuqjof ywngzqfhnós qqjló itsij jxyfgf its Vznotyj, mfwyt ráx rfqywjhmt ij
qt vzj éq vznxnjwf, d, fdziásitqj f xzgnw xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, jq Infgqt xj mf qqjafit fq wzhnt.

-¿Vzé infgqt? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Jq ij qfx ajonlfx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Uzjx dt qj htgwfwé -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, xn gnjs xj jshjwwfxj hts éq js
qtx ráx mtsitx d jxhzwtx hfqfgtetx ijq nsknjwst. Xílzjrj, Xfshmt, vzj qf
hfwwjyf af ijxufhnt, d hts qfx rzqfx ijqqf xfynxkfwé qf uéwinif ijq wzhnt.

-St mfd ufwf vzé mfhjw jxf inqnljshnf, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: azjxywf
rjwhji yjruqj xz hóqjwf, vzj, xjlús rj ufwjhj, df jq Infgqt mf ijofit jq
wzhnt, d azjqaj f qf vzjwjshnf.

D fxí jwf qf ajwifi; utwvzj, mfgnjsit hfíit jq Infgqt hts jq wzhnt, utw
nrnyfw f its Vznotyj d f Wthnsfsyj, jq Infgqt xj kzj f unj fq uzjgqt, d jq
ozrjsyt xj atqanó f xz frt.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot its Vznotyj-, xjwá gnjs hfxynlfw jq ijxhtrjinrnjsyt ij
fvzjq ijrtsnt js fqlzst ij qtx ij qf hfwwjyf, fzsvzj xjf jq rjxrt
jrujwfitw.

-Vzíyjxjqj f azjxywf rjwhji jxt ij qf nrflnsfhnós -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, d ytrj
rn htsxjot, vzj jx vzj szshf xj ytrj hts kfwxfsyjx, vzj jx ljsyj
kfatwjhnif. Wjhnyfsyj mj anxyt dt jxyfw uwjxt utw itx rzjwyjx d xfqnw
qngwj d xns htxyfx. Xjuf azjxf rjwhji vzj, htrt xts ljsyjx fqjlwjx d ij
uqfhjw, ytitx qtx kfatwjhjs, ytitx qtx frufwfs, fdzifs d jxynrfs, d ráx
xnjsit ij fvzjqqtx ij qfx htrufñífx wjfqjx d ij yíyzqt, vzj ytitx, t qtx
ráx, js xzx ywfojx d htrutxyzwf ufwjhjs zstx uwíshnujx.

-Uzjx hts ytit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, st xj rj mf ij nw jq ijrtsnt
kfwxfsyj fqfgfsit, fzsvzj qj kfatwjehf ytit jq lésjwt mzrfst.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, atqanó f qf hfwwjyf, vzj df jxyfgf gnjs hjwhf ijq uzjgqt.
Ngf ifsit athjx, inhnjsit:

-Ijyjsjtx, jxujwfi, yzwgf fqjlwj d wjlthnofif, vzj tx vznjwt ifw f jsyjsijw
hórt xj mfs ij ywfyfw qtx ozrjsytx d fqnrfñfx vzj xnwajs ij hfgfqqjwíf f
qtx jxhzijwtx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx.

Yfs fqytx jwfs qtx lwnytx ij its Vznotyj, vzj qtx tdjwts d jsyjsinjwts qtx
ij qf hfwwjyf; d, ozelfsit utw qfx ufqfgwfx qf nsyjshnós ijq vzj qfx ijhíf,
js zs nsxyfsyj xfqyó qf Rzjwyj ij qf hfwwjyf, d ywfx jqqf, jq Jrujwfitw, jq
Infgqt hfwwjyjwt d jq Ásljq, xns vzjifwxj qf Wjnsf sn jq intx Hzunit; d
ytitx xj hfwlfwts ij unjiwfx d xj uzxnjwts js fqf, jxujwfsit wjhjgnw f its
Vznotyj js qfx uzsyfx ij xzx lznofwwtx. Its Vznotyj, vzj qtx ant uzjxytx js
yfs lfqqfwit jxhzfiwós, qtx gwfetx qjafsyfitx hts fijrás ij ijxujinw
utijwtxfrjsyj qfx unjiwfx, ijyzat qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj d uúxtxj f ujsxfw
ij vzé rtit qtx fhtrjyjwíf hts rjstx ujqnlwt ij xz ujwxtsf. Js jxyt vzj xj
ijyzat, qqjló Xfshmt, d, anésitqj js yfqqj ij fhtrjyjw fq gnjs ktwrfit
jxhzfiwós, qj inot:

-Fxfe ij qthzwf xjwíf nsyjsyfw yfq jruwjxf: htsxnijwj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw
rít, vzj ufwf xtuf ij fwwtdt d yjsyj gtsjyj, st mfd fwrf ijkjsxnaf js jq
rzsit, xn st jx jrgzynwxj d jshjwwfwxj js zsf hfrufsf ij gwtshj; d yfrgnés
xj mf ij htsxnijwfw vzj jx ráx yjrjwnifi vzj afqjsyíf fhtrjyjw zs mtrgwj
xtqt f zs joéwhnyt itsij jxyá qf Rzjwyj, d ujqjfs js ujwxtsf jrujwfitwjx, d
f vznjs fdzifs qtx gzjstx d qtx rfqtx ásljqjx; d xn jxyf htsxnijwfhnós st
qj rzjaj f jxyfwxj vzjit, rzéafqj xfgjw ij hnjwyt vzj, jsywj ytitx qtx vzj
fqqí jxyás, fzsvzj ufwjhjs wjdjx, uwíshnujx d jrujwfitwjx, st mfd snslús
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj.

-Fmtwf xí -inot its Vznotyj- mfx ifit, Xfshmt, js jq uzsyt vzj uzjij d ijgj
rzifwrj ij rn df ijyjwrnsfit nsyjsyt. Dt st uzjit sn ijgt xfhfw qf jxufif,
htrt tywfx ajhjx rzhmfx yj mj inhmt, htsywf vznjs st kzjwj fwrfit
hfgfqqjwt. F yn, Xfshmt, ythf, xn vznjwjx ytrfw qf ajslfsef ijq flwfant vzj
f yz wzhnt xj qj mf mjhmt, vzj dt ijxij fvzí yj fdzifwé hts athjx d
fiajwynrnjsytx xfqzifgqjx.

-St mfd ufwf vzé, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ytrfw ajslfsef ij sfinj, uzjx
st jx ij gzjstx hwnxynfstx ytrfwqf ij qtx flwfantx; hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt
fhfgfwé hts rn fxst vzj utslf xz tkjsxf js qfx rfstx ij rn atqzsyfi, qf
hzfq jx ij ananw ufhíknhfrjsyj qtx iífx vzj qtx hnjqtx rj injwjs ij anif.

-Uzjx éxf jx yz ijyjwrnsfhnós -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, Xfshmt gzjst, Xfshmt
inxhwjyt, Xfshmt hwnxynfst d Xfshmt xnshjwt, ijojrtx jxyfx kfsyfxrfx d
atqafrtx f gzxhfw rjotwjx d ráx hfqnknhfifx fajsyzwfx; vzj dt ajt jxyf
ynjwwf ij yfqqj, vzj st mfs ij kfqyfw js jqqf rzhmfx d rzd rnqflwtxfx.

Atqanó qfx wnjsifx qzjlt, Xfshmt kzj f ytrfw xz wzhnt, qf Rzjwyj hts ytit
xz jxhzfiwós atqfsyj atqanjwts f xz hfwwjyf d uwtxnlznjwts xz anfoj, d jxyj
kjqnhj kns yzat qf yjrjwtxf fajsyzwf ij qf hfwwjyf ij qf Rzjwyj, lwfhnfx
xjfs ififx fq xfqzifgqj htsxjot vzj Xfshmt Ufsef int f xz frt; fq hzfq, jq
iíf xnlznjsyj, qj xzhjinó tywf hts zs jsfrtwfit d fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt, ij st
rjstx xzxujsxnós vzj qf ufxfif.





Hfuíyzqt CNN. Ij qf jxywfñf fajsyzwf vzj qj xzhjinó fq afqjwtxt its
Vznotyj hts jq gwfat Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Jxujotx


Qf sthmj vzj xnlznó fq iíf ijq wjshzjsywt ij qf Rzjwyj qf ufxfwts its
Vznotyj d xz jxhzijwt ijgfot ij zstx fqytx d xtrgwtxtx áwgtqjx, mfgnjsit, f
ujwxzfxnós ij Xfshmt, htrnit its Vznotyj ij qt vzj ajsíf js jq wjuzjxyt ijq
wzhnt, d jsywj qf hjsf inot Xfshmt f xz xjñtw:

-Xjñtw, ¡vzé ytsyt mzgnjwf fsifit dt xn mzgnjwf jxhtlnit js fqgwnhnfx qtx
ijxutotx ij qf uwnrjwf fajsyzwf vzj azjxywf rjwhji fhfgfwf, fsyjx vzj qfx
hwífx ij qfx ywjx djlzfx! Js jkjhyt, js jkjhyt, ráx afqj uáofwt js rfst vzj
gznywj atqfsit.

-Ytifaíf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xn yú, Xfshmt, rj ijofwfx fhtrjyjw, htrt
dt vzjwíf, yj mzgnjwfs hfgnit js ijxutotx, utw qt rjstx, qf htwtsf ij twt
ij qf Jrujwfywne d qfx unsyfifx fqfx ij Hzunit, vzj dt xj qfx vznyfwf fq
wjiwtujqt d yj qfx uzxnjwf js qfx rfstx.

-Szshf qtx hjywtx d htwtsfx ij qtx jrujwfitwjx kfwxfsyjx -wjxutsinó
Xfshmt Ufsef- kzjwts ij twt uzwt, xnst ij twtujq t mtof ij qfyf.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj st kzjwf fhjwyfit vzj qtx
fyfaítx ij qf htrjinf kzjwfs knstx, xnst knslnitx d fufwjsyjx, htrt qt jx
qf rjxrf htrjinf, hts qf hzfq vznjwt, Xfshmt, vzj jxyéx gnjs, yjsnésitqf js
yz lwfhnf, d utw jq rnxrt htsxnlznjsyj f qtx vzj qfx wjuwjxjsyfs d f qtx
vzj qfx htrutsjs, utwvzj ytitx xts nsxywzrjsytx ij mfhjw zs lwfs gnjs f qf
wjuúgqnhf, utsnésitstx zs jxujot f hfif ufxt ijqfsyj, itsij xj ajjs fq anat
qfx fhhntsjx ij qf anif mzrfsf, d snslzsf htrufwfhnós mfd vzj ráx fq anat
stx wjuwjxjsyj qt vzj xtrtx d qt vzj mfgjrtx ij xjw htrt qf htrjinf d qtx
htrjinfsyjx. Xn st, inrj: ¿st mfx anxyt yú wjuwjxjsyfw fqlzsf htrjinf
fitsij xj nsywtizhjs wjdjx, jrujwfitwjx d utsyíknhjx, hfgfqqjwtx, ifrfx d
tywtx inajwxtx ujwxtsfojx? Zst mfhj jq wzknás, tywt jq jrgzxyjwt, éxyj jq
rjwhfijw, fvzéq jq xtqifit, tywt jq xnruqj inxhwjyt, tywt jq jsfrtwfit
xnruqj; d, fhfgfif qf htrjinf d ijxsziásitxj ij qtx ajxynitx ijqqf, vzjifs
ytitx qtx wjhnyfsyjx nlzfqjx.

-Xí mj anxyt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Uzjx qt rjxrt -inot its Vznotyj- fhtsyjhj js qf htrjinf d ywfyt ijxyj
rzsit, itsij zstx mfhjs qtx jrujwfitwjx, tywtx qtx utsyíknhjx, d,
knsfqrjsyj, ytifx hzfsyfx knlzwfx xj uzjijs nsywtizhnw js zsf htrjinf;
ujwt, js qqjlfsit fq kns, vzj jx hzfsit xj fhfgf qf anif, f ytitx qjx vznyf
qf rzjwyj qfx wtufx vzj qtx inkjwjshnfgfs, d vzjifs nlzfqjx js qf
xjuzqyzwf.

-¡Gwfaf htrufwfhnós! -inot Xfshmt-, fzsvzj st yfs szjaf vzj dt st qf mfdf
tíit rzhmfx d inajwxfx ajhjx, htrt fvzjqqf ijq ozjlt ijq fojiwje, vzj,
rnjsywfx izwf jq ozjlt, hfif unjef ynjsj xz ufwynhzqfw tknhnt; d, js
fhfgásitxj jq ozjlt, ytifx xj rjehqfs, ozsyfs d gfwfofs, d ifs hts jqqfx js
zsf gtqxf, vzj jx htrt ifw hts qf anif js qf xjuzqyzwf.

-Hfif iíf, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, yj afx mfhnjsit rjstx xnruqj d ráx
inxhwjyt.

-Xí, vzj fqlt xj rj mf ij ujlfw ij qf inxhwjhnós ij azjxywf rjwhji
-wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; vzj qfx ynjwwfx vzj ij xzdt xts jxyéwnqjx d xjhfx,
jxyjwhtqásitqfx d hzqynaásitqfx, anjsjs f ifw gzjstx kwzytx: vznjwt ijhnw
vzj qf htsajwxfhnós ij azjxywf rjwhji mf xnit jq jxynéwhtq vzj xtgwj qf
jxyéwnq ynjwwf ij rn xjht nsljsnt mf hfíit; qf hzqynafhnós, jq ynjrut vzj
mf vzj qj xnwat d htrzsnht; d hts jxyt jxujwt ij ifw kwzytx ij rí vzj xjfs
ij gjsinhnós, yfqjx, vzj st ijxinlfs sn ijxqnhjs ij qtx xjsijwtx ij qf
gzjsf hwnfsef vzj azjxf rjwhji mf mjhmt js jq fltxyfit jsyjsinrnjsyt rít.

Wnóxj its Vznotyj ij qfx fkjhyfifx wfetsjx ij Xfshmt, d ufwjhnóqj xjw
ajwifi qt vzj ijhíf ij xz jrnjsif, utwvzj ij hzfsit js hzfsit mfgqfgf ij
rfsjwf vzj qj firnwfgf; uzjxyt vzj ytifx t qfx ráx ajhjx vzj Xfshmt vzjwíf
mfgqfw ij tutxnhnós d f qt htwyjxfst, fhfgfgf xz wfeós hts ijxujñfwxj ijq
rtsyj ij xz xnruqnhnifi fq uwtkzsit ij xz nlstwfshnf; d js qt vzj éq xj
rtxywfgf ráx jqjlfsyj d rjrtwntxt jwf js ywfjw wjkwfsjx, ansnjxjs t st
ansnjxjs f ujqt ij qt vzj ywfyfgf, htrt xj mfgwá anxyt d xj mfgwá styfit js
jq inxhzwxt ijxyf mnxytwnf.

Js jxyfx d js tywfx uqáynhfx xj qjx ufxó lwfs ufwyj ij qf sthmj, d f Xfshmt
qj anst js atqzsyfi ij ijofw hfjw qfx htruzjwyfx ij qtx totx, htrt éq ijhíf
hzfsit vzjwíf itwrnw, d, ijxfqnñfsit fq wzhnt, qj int ufxyt fgzsitxt d
qngwj. St vznyó qf xnqqf f Wthnsfsyj, utw xjw jcuwjxt rfsifrnjsyt ij xz
xjñtw vzj, js jq ynjrut vzj fsizanjxjs js hfrufñf, t st izwrnjxjs ijgfot ij
yjhmfit, st ijxfqnñfxj f Wthnsfsyj: fsynlzf zxfsef jxyfgqjhnif d lzfwifif
ij qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx, vznyfw jq kwjst d htqlfwqj ijq fweós ij qf
xnqqf; ujwt, ¿vznyfw qf xnqqf fq hfgfqqt?, ¡lzfwif!; d fxí qt mnet Xfshmt,
d qj int qf rnxrf qngjwyfi vzj fq wzhnt, hzdf frnxyfi iéq d ij Wthnsfsyj
kzj yfs úsnhf d yfs ywfgfif, vzj mfd kfrf, utw ywfinhnós ij ufiwjx f mnotx,
vzj jq fzytw ijxyf ajwifijwf mnxytwnf mnet ufwynhzqfwjx hfuíyzqtx ijqqf;
rfx vzj, utw lzfwifw qf ijhjshnf d ijhtwt vzj f yfs mjwtnhf mnxytwnf xj
ijgj, st qtx uzxt js jqqf, uzjxyt vzj fqlzsfx ajhjx xj ijxhznif ijxyj xz
uwtxzuzjxyt, d jxhwngj vzj, fxí htrt qfx itx gjxynfx xj ozsyfgfs, fhziífs f
wfxhfwxj jq zst fq tywt, d vzj, ijxuzéx ij hfsxfitx d xfynxkjhmtx, hwzefgf
Wthnsfsyj jq ujxhzjet xtgwj jq hzjqqt ijq wzhnt (vzj qj xtgwfgf ij qf tywf
ufwyj ráx ij rjinf afwf), d, rnwfsit qtx itx fyjsyfrjsyj fq xzjqt, xj
xtqífs jxyfw ij fvzjqqf rfsjwf ywjx iífx; f qt rjstx, ytit jq ynjrut vzj
qjx ijofgfs, t st qjx htrujqíf qf mfrgwj f gzxhfw xzxyjsyt.

Inlt vzj inhjs vzj ijoó jq fzytw jxhwnyt vzj qtx mfgíf htrufwfit js qf
frnxyfi f qf vzj yzanjwts Snxt d Jzwífqt, d Uíqfijx d Twjxyjx; d xn jxyt jx
fxí, xj utiíf jhmfw ij ajw, ufwf zsnajwxfq firnwfhnós, hzás knwrj ijgnó xjw
qf frnxyfi ijxytx itx ufhíknhtx fsnrfqjx, d ufwf htskzxnós ij qtx mtrgwjx,
vzj yfs rfq xfgjs lzfwifwxj frnxyfi qtx zstx f qtx tywtx. Utw jxyt xj inot:

St mfd frnlt ufwf frnlt:

qfx hfñfx xj azjqajs qfsefx;

d jq tywt vzj hfsyó:

Ij frnlt f frnlt qf hmnshmj, jyh.

D st qj ufwjehf f fqlzst vzj fsizat jq fzytw fqlt kzjwf ij hfrnst js mfgjw
htrufwfit qf frnxyfi ijxytx fsnrfqjx f qf ij qtx mtrgwjx, vzj ij qfx
gjxynfx mfs wjhjgnit rzhmtx fiajwynrnjsytx qtx mtrgwjx d fuwjsinit rzhmfx
htxfx ij nrutwyfshnf, htrt xts: ij qfx hnlüjñfx, jq hwnxyjq; ij qtx ujwwtx,
jq aórnyt d jq flwfijhnrnjsyt; ij qfx lwzqqfx, qf anlnqfshnf; ij qfx
mtwrnlfx, qf uwtanijshnf; ij qtx jqjkfsyjx, qf mtsjxynifi, d qf qjfqyfi,
ijq hfgfqqt.

Knsfqrjsyj, Xfshmt xj vzjió itwrnit fq unj ij zs fqhtwstvzj, d its Vznotyj
itwrnyfsit fq ij zsf wtgzxyf jshnsf; ujwt, utht jxufhnt ij ynjrut mfgíf
ufxfit, hzfsit qj ijxujwyó zs wznit vzj xnsynó f xzx jxufqifx, d,
qjafsyásitxj hts xtgwjxfqyt, xj uzxt f rnwfw d f jxhzhmfw ij iósij jq wznit
uwthjiíf, d ant vzj jwfs itx mtrgwjx f hfgfqqt, d vzj jq zst, ijoásitxj
ijwwngfw ij qf xnqqf, inot fq tywt:

-Fuéfyj, frnlt, d vznyf qtx kwjstx f qtx hfgfqqtx, vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, jxyj
xnynt fgzsif ij djwgf ufwf jqqtx, d ijq xnqjshnt d xtqjifi vzj mfs rjsjxyjw
rnx frtwtxtx ujsxfrnjsytx.

Jq ijhnw jxyt d jq yjsijwxj js jq xzjqt ytit kzj f zs rjxrt ynjrut; d, fq
fwwtofwxj, mnhnjwts wznit qfx fwrfx ij vzj ajsíf fwrfit, rfsnknjxyf xjñfq
utw itsij htsthnó its Vznotyj vzj ijgíf ij xjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; d,
qqjlásitxj f Xfshmt, vzj itwríf, qj ywfgó ijq gwfet, d hts st ujvzjñt
ywfgfot qj atqanó js xz fhzjwit, d hts ate gfof qj inot:

-Mjwrfst Xfshmt, fajsyzwf yjsjrtx.

-Intx stx qf ié gzjsf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d ¿fiósij jxyá, xjñtw rít, xz
rjwhji ij jxf xjñtwf fajsyzwf?

-¿Fiósij, Xfshmt? -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-; azjqaj qtx totx d rnwf, d ajwáx
fqqí yjsinit zs fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt, vzj, f qt vzj f rí xj rj ywfxqzhj, st
ijgj ij jxyfw ijrfxnfifrjsyj fqjlwj, utwvzj qj an fwwtofw ijq hfgfqqt d
yjsijwxj js jq xzjqt hts fqlzsfx rzjxywfx ij ijxujhmt, d fq hfjw qj
hwzonjwts qfx fwrfx.

-Uzjx ¿js vzé mfqqf azjxf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt- vzj éxyf xjf fajsyzwf?

-St vznjwt dt ijhnw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj éxyf xjf fajsyzwf ijq ytit,
xnst uwnshnunt ijqqf; vzj utw fvzí xj htrnjsefs qfx fajsyzwfx. Ujwt
jxhzhmf, vzj, f qt vzj ufwjhj, yjruqfsit jxyá zs qfúi t anlüjqf, d, xjlús
jxhzuj d xj ijxjrgfwfef jq ujhmt, ijgj ij uwjufwfwxj ufwf hfsyfw fqlt.

-F gzjsf kj vzj jx fxí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d vzj ijgj ij xjw hfgfqqjwt
jsfrtwfit.

-St mfd snslzst ij qtx fsifsyjx vzj st qt xjf -inot its Vznotyj-. D
jxhzhmértxqj, vzj utw jq mnqt xfhfwjrtx jq tanqqt ij xzx ujsxfrnjsytx, xn
jx vzj hfsyf; vzj ij qf fgzsifshnf ijq htwfeós mfgqf qf qjslzf.

Wjuqnhfw vzjwíf Xfshmt f xz frt, ujwt qf ate ijq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj, vzj
st jwf rzd rfqf rn rzd gzjsf, qt jxytwgó; d, jxyfsit qtx itx fyósnytx,
tdjwts vzj qt vzj hfsyó kzj jxyj xtsjyt:

  -Ifirj, xjñtwf, zs yéwrnst vzj xnlf,
  htsktwrj f azjxywf atqzsyfi htwyfit;
  vzj xjwá ij qf ríf fxí jxynrfit,
  vzj utw ofráx zs uzsyt iéq ijxinlf.
  Xn lzxyánx vzj hfqqfsit rn kfynlf
  rzjwf, htsyfirj df utw fhfgfit:
  xn vzjwénx vzj tx qf hzjsyj js ijxzxfit
  rtit, mfwé vzj jq rjxrt frtw qf inlf.
  F uwzjgf ij htsywfwntx jxytd mjhmt,
  ij gqfsif hjwf d ij infrfsyj izwt,
  d f qfx qjdjx ij frtw jq frf fozxyt.
  Gqfsit hzfq jx, t kzjwyj, tkwjeht jq ujhmt:
  jsyfqqfi t nruwnrni qt vzj tx ié lzxyt,
  vzj ij lzfwifwqt jyjwsfrjsyj ozwt.

Hts zs ¡fd!, fwwfshfit, fq ufwjhjw, ij qt ísynrt ij xz htwfeós, int kns f
xz hfsyt jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj, d, ij fqqí f zs utht, hts ate itqnjsyj d
qfxynrfif, inot:

-¡Tm qf ráx mjwrtxf d qf ráx nslwfyf rzojw ijq twgj! ¿Hórt vzj xjwá
utxngqj, xjwjsíxnrf Hfxnqijf ij Afsifqnf, vzj mfx ij htsxjsynw vzj xj
htsxzrf d fhfgj js htsynszfx ujwjlwnsfhntsjx d js áxujwtx d izwtx ywfgfotx
jxyj yz hfzynat hfgfqqjwt? ¿St gfxyf df vzj mj mjhmt vzj yj htsknjxjs utw
qf ráx mjwrtxf ijq rzsit ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx ij Sfafwwf, ytitx qtx
qjtsjxjx, ytitx qtx yfwyjxntx, ytitx qtx hfxyjqqfstx, d, knsfqrjsyj, ytitx
qtx hfgfqqjwtx ij qf Rfshmf?

-Jxt st -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, vzj dt xtd ij qf Rfshmf d szshf
yfq mj htskjxfit, sn utiíf sn ijgíf htskjxfw zsf htxf yfs ujwozinhnfq f qf
gjqqjef ij rn xjñtwf; d jxyj yfq hfgfqqjwt df ajjx yú, Xfshmt, vzj
ijxafwíf. Ujwt, jxhzhmjrtx: vzneá xj ijhqfwfwá ráx.

-Xn mfwá -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj yéwrnst qqjaf ij vzjofwxj zs rjx fwwjt.

Ujwt st kzj fxí, utwvzj, mfgnjsit jsywjtíit jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj vzj
mfgqfgfs hjwhf iéq, xns ufxfw fijqfsyj js xz qfrjsyfhnós, xj uzxt js unj, d
inot hts ate xtstwf d htrjinif:

-¿Vznés af fqqá? ¿Vzé ljsyj? ¿Jx utw ajsyzwf ij qf ijq súrjwt ij qtx
htsyjsytx, t qf ijq ij qtx fkqnlnitx?

-Ij qtx fkqnlnitx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-Uzjx qqélzjxj f rí -wjxutsinó jq ijq Gtxvzj-, d mfwá hzjsyf vzj xj qqjlf
f qf rjxrf ywnxyjef d f qf fkqnhnós rjxrf.

Its Vznotyj, vzj xj ant wjxutsijw yfs ynjwsf d htrjinifrjsyj, xj qqjló f
éq, d Xfshmt sn ráx sn rjstx.

Jq hfgfqqjwt qfrjsyfitw fxnó f its Vznotyj ijq gwfet, inhnjsit:

-Xjsyftx fvzí, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, vzj ufwf jsyjsijw vzj qt xtnx, d ij qtx vzj
uwtkjxfs qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, gáxyfrj jq mfgjwtx mfqqfit js jxyj qzlfw,
itsij qf xtqjifi d jq xjwjst tx mfhjs htrufñíf, sfyzwfqjx qjhmtx d uwtunfx
jxyfshnfx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Hfgfqqjwt xtd, d ij qf uwtkjxnós vzj ijhíx; d, fzsvzj js rn fqrf ynjsjs xz
uwtunt fxnjsyt qfx ywnxyjefx, qfx ijxlwfhnfx d qfx ijxajsyzwfx, st utw jxt
xj mf fmzdjsyfit ijqqf qf htrufxnós vzj yjslt ij qfx fojsfx ijxinhmfx. Ij
qt vzj htsyfxyj utht mf, htqjlí vzj qfx azjxywfx xts jsfrtwfifx, vznjwt
ijhnw, ijq frtw vzj yjsénx f fvzjqqf mjwrtxf nslwfyf vzj js azjxywfx
qfrjsyfhntsjx strgwfxyjx.

Df hzfsit jxyt ufxfgfs jxyfgfs xjsyfitx ozsytx xtgwj qf izwf ynjwwf, js
gzjsf ufe d htrufñíf, htrt xn fq wtrujw ijq iíf st xj mzgnjwfs ij wtrujw
qfx hfgjefx.

-Utw ajsyzwf, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt -uwjlzsyó jq ijq Gtxvzj f its Vznotyj-, ¿xtnx
jsfrtwfit?

-Utw ijxajsyzwf qt xtd -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; fzsvzj qtx ifñtx vzj sfhjs
ij qtx gnjs htqthfitx ujsxfrnjsytx, fsyjx xj ijgjs yjsjw utw lwfhnfx vzj
utw ijxinhmfx.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj-, xn st stx yzwgfxjs qf wfeós d jq
jsyjsinrnjsyt qtx ijxijsjx, vzj, xnjsit rzhmtx, ufwjhjs ajslfsefx.

-Szshf kzn ijxijñfit ij rn xjñtwf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-St, utw hnjwyt -inot Xfshmt, vzj fqqí ozsyt jxyfgf-, utwvzj jx rn xjñtwf
htrt zsf gtwwjlf rfsxf: jx ráx gqfsif vzj zsf rfsyjhf.

-¿Jx azjxywt jxhzijwt éxyj? -uwjlzsyó jq ijq Gtxvzj.

-Xí jx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-Szshf mj anxyt dt jxhzijwt -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj- vzj xj fywjaf f mfgqfw
itsij mfgqf xz xjñtw; f qt rjstx, fmí jxyá jxj rít, vzj jx yfs lwfsij htrt
xz ufiwj, d st xj uwtgfwá vzj mfdf ijxuqjlfit jq qfgnt itsij dt mfgqt.

-Uzjx f kj -inot Xfshmt-, vzj mj mfgqfit dt, d uzjit mfgqfw ijqfsyj ij tywt
yfs..., d fzs vzéijxj fvzí, vzj jx ujtw rjsjfqqt.

Jq jxhzijwt ijq Gtxvzj fxnó utw jq gwfet f Xfshmt, inhnésitqj:

-Aártstx qtx itx itsij utifrtx mfgqfw jxhzijwnqrjsyj ytit hzfsyt
vznxnéwjrtx, d ijojrtx f jxytx xjñtwjx frtx szjxywtx vzj xj ijs ij qfx
fxyfx, htsyásitxj qfx mnxytwnfx ij xzx frtwjx; vzj f gzjs xjlzwt vzj qjx mf
ij htljw jq iíf js jqqfx d st qfx mfs ij mfgjw fhfgfit.

-Xjf js gzjsf mtwf -inot Xfshmt-; d dt qj inwé f azjxywf rjwhji vznés xtd,
ufwf vzj ajf xn uzjit jsywfw js ithjsf hts qtx ráx mfgqfsyjx jxhzijwtx.

Hts jxyt xj fufwyfwts qtx itx jxhzijwtx, jsywj qtx hzfqjx ufxó zs yfs
lwfhntxt htqtvznt htrt kzj lwfaj jq vzj ufxó jsywj xzx xjñtwjx.





Hfuíyzqt CNNN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf fajsyzwf ijq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj, hts
jq inxhwjyt, szjat d xzfaj htqtvznt vzj ufxó jsywj qtx itx jxhzijwtx


Inaninitx jxyfgfs hfgfqqjwtx d jxhzijwtx: éxytx htsyásitxj xzx anifx, d
fvzéqqtx xzx frtwjx; ujwt qf mnxytwnf hzjsyf uwnrjwt jq wfetsfrnjsyt ij qtx
rtetx d qzjlt uwtxnlzj jq ij qtx frtx; d fxí, inhj vzj, fufwyásitxj zs utht
ijqqtx, jq ijq Gtxvzj inot f Xfshmt:

-Ywfgfotxf anif jx qf vzj ufxfrtx d ananrtx, xjñtw rít, jxytx vzj xtrtx
jxhzijwtx ij hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx: js ajwifi vzj htrjrtx jq ufs js jq xzitw
ij szjxywtx wtxywtx, vzj jx zsf ij qfx rfqinhntsjx vzj jhmó Intx f szjxywtx
uwnrjwtx ufiwjx.

-Yfrgnés xj uzjij ijhnw -fñfinó Xfshmt- vzj qt htrjrtx js jq djqt ij
szjxywtx hzjwutx; utwvzj, ¿vznés ráx hfqtw d ráx kwít vzj qtx rnxjwfgqjx
jxhzijwtx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf? D fzs rjstx rfq xn htrnéwfrtx, uzjx qtx
izjqtx, hts ufs xts rjstx; ujwt yfq aje mfd vzj xj stx ufxf zs iíf d itx
xns ijxfdzsfwstx, xn st jx ijq anjsyt vzj xtuqf.

-Ytit jxt xj uzjij qqjafw d htsqqjafw -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj-, hts qf
jxujwfsef vzj yjsjrtx ijq uwjrnt; utwvzj xn ijrfxnfifrjsyj st jx
ijxlwfhnfit jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj f vznjs zs jxhzijwt xnwaj, utw qt rjstx, f
uthtx qfshjx xj ajwá uwjrnfit hts zs mjwrtxt ltgnjwst ij hzfqvzj ísxzqf, t
hts zs htsifit ij gzjs ufwjhjw.

Dt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- df mj inhmt f rn frt vzj rj htsyjsyt hts jq ltgnjwst ij
fqlzsf ísxzqf; d éq jx yfs stgqj d yfs qngjwfq, vzj rj qj mf uwtrjynit
rzhmfx d inajwxfx ajhjx.

Dt -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj-, hts zs hfstsnhfyt vzjifwé xfynxkjhmt ij rnx
xjwanhntx, d df rj qj ynjsj rfsifit rn frt, d ¡vzé yfq!

-Ijgj ij xjw -inot Xfshmt- xz frt ij azjxf rjwhji hfgfqqjwt f qt
jhqjxnáxynht, d utiwá mfhjw jxfx rjwhjijx f xzx gzjstx jxhzijwtx; ujwt jq
rít jx rjwfrjsyj qjlt, fzsvzj dt rj fhzjwit hzfsit qj vzjwífs fhtsxjofw
ujwxtsfx inxhwjyfx, fzsvzj, f rn ufwjhjw rfq nsyjshntsfifx, vzj uwthzwfxj
xjw fwetgnxut; ujwt éq st vznxt xnst xjw jrujwfitw, d dt jxyfgf jsytshjx
yjrgqfsit xn qj ajsíf js atqzsyfi ij xjw ij qf Nlqjxnf, utw st mfqqfwrj
xzknhnjsyj ij yjsjw gjsjknhntx utw jqqf; utwvzj qj mflt xfgjw f azjxf
rjwhji vzj, fzsvzj ufwjeht mtrgwj, xtd zsf gjxynf ufwf xjw ij qf Nlqjxnf.

-Uzjx js ajwifi vzj qt djwwf azjxf rjwhji -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj-, f hfzxf vzj
qtx ltgnjwstx nsxzqfstx st xts ytitx ij gzjsf ifyf. Fqlzstx mfd ytwhnitx,
fqlzstx utgwjx, fqlzstx rfqjshósnhtx, d knsfqrjsyj, jq ráx jwlznit d gnjs
inxuzjxyt ywfj htsxnlt zsf ujxfif hfwlf ij ujsxfrnjsytx d ij nshtrtinifijx,
vzj utsj xtgwj xzx mtrgwtx jq ijxinhmfit vzj qj hzut js xzjwyj. Mfwyt rjotw
xjwíf vzj qtx vzj uwtkjxfrtx jxyf rfqinyf xjwanizrgwj stx wjynwáxjrtx f
szjxywfx hfxfx, d fqqí stx jsywjyzanéxjrtx js jojwhnhntx ráx xzfajx, htrt
xn inoéxjrtx, hfefsit t ujxhfsit; vzj, ¿vzé jxhzijwt mfd yfs utgwj js jq
rzsit, f vznjs qj kfqyj zs wthís, d zs ufw ij lfqltx, d zsf hfñf ij ujxhfw,
hts vzj jsywjyjsjwxj js xz fqijf?

-F rí st rj kfqyf sfif ijxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: ajwifi jx vzj st yjslt
wthís, ujwt yjslt zs fxst vzj afqj itx ajhjx ráx vzj jq hfgfqqt ij rn frt.
Rfqf ufxhzf rj ié Intx, d xjf qf uwnrjwf vzj ansnjwj, xn qj ywthfwf utw éq,
fzsvzj rj injxjs hzfywt kfsjlfx ij hjgfif jshnrf. F gzwqf yjsiwá azjxf
rjwhji jq afqtw ij rn wzhnt, vzj wzhnt jx jq htqtw ij rn ozrjsyt. Uzjx
lfqltx st rj mfgífs ij kfqyfw, mfgnésitqtx xtgwfitx js rn uzjgqt; d ráx,
vzj jsytshjx jx qf hfef ráx lzxytxf hzfsit xj mfhj f htxyf fojsf.

-Wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj -wjxutsinó jq ijq Gtxvzj-, xjñtw jxhzijwt, vzj yjslt
uwtuzjxyt d ijyjwrnsfit ij ijofw jxyfx gtwwfhmjwífx ijxytx hfgfqqjwtx, d
wjynwfwrj f rn fqijf, d hwnfw rnx mnonytx, vzj yjslt ywjx htrt ywjx
twnjsyfqjx ujwqfx.

-Itx yjslt dt -inot Xfshmt-, vzj xj uzjijs uwjxjsyfw fq Ufuf js ujwxtsf,
jxujhnfqrjsyj zsf rzhmfhmf f vznjs hwít ufwf htsijxf, xn Intx kzjwj
xjwanit, fzsvzj f ujxfw ij xz rfiwj.

-D ¿vzé jifi ynjsj jxf xjñtwf vzj xj hwíf ufwf htsijxf? -uwjlzsyó jq ijq
Gtxvzj.

-Vznshj fñtx, itx ráx f rjstx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt jx yfs lwfsij htrt
zsf qfsef, d yfs kwjxhf htrt zsf rfñfsf ij fgwnq, d ynjsj zsf kzjwef ij zs
lfsfuás.

-Ufwyjx xts éxfx -wjxutsinó jq ijq Gtxvzj- st xóqt ufwf xjw htsijxf, xnst
ufwf xjw snskf ijq ajwij gtxvzj. ¡Tm mnijuzyf, uzyf, d vzé wjot ijgj ij
yjsjw qf gjqqfhf!

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt, fqlt rtmíst:

-Sn jqqf jx uzyf, sn qt kzj xz rfiwj, sn qt xjwá snslzsf ij qfx itx, Intx
vznwnjsit, rnjsywfx dt ananjwj. D mágqjxj ráx htrjinifrjsyj, vzj, ufwf
mfgjwxj hwnfit azjxf rjwhji jsywj hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, vzj xts qf rjxrf
htwyjxíf, st rj ufwjhjs rzd htshjwyfifx jxfx ufqfgwfx.

-¡Tm, vzé rfq xj qj jsynjsij f azjxf rjwhji -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj- ij
fhmfvzj ij fqfgfsefx, xjñtw jxhzijwt! ¿Hórt d st xfgj vzj hzfsit fqlús
hfgfqqjwt if zsf gzjsf qfsefif fq ytwt js qf uqfef, t hzfsit fqlzsf ujwxtsf
mfhj fqlzsf htxf gnjs mjhmf, xzjqj ijhnw jq azqlt: "¡Tm mnijuzyf, uzyt, d
vzé gnjs vzj qt mf mjhmt!?" D fvzjqqt vzj ufwjhj anyzujwnt, js fvzjq
yéwrnst, jx fqfgfsef styfgqj; d wjsjlfi atx, xjñtw, ij qtx mnotx t mnofx
vzj st mfhjs tgwfx vzj rjwjehfs xj qjx ijs f xzx ufiwjx qttwjx xjrjofsyjx.

-Xí wjsnjlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d ijxj rtit d utw jxf rnxrf wfeós utiíf
jhmfw azjxywf rjwhji f rí d mnotx d f rn rzojw ytif zsf uzyjwíf jshnrf,
utwvzj ytit hzfsyt mfhjs d inhjs xts jxywjrtx inlstx ij xjrjofsyjx
fqfgfsefx, d ufwf atqajwqtx f ajw wzjlt dt f Intx rj xfvzj ij ujhfit
rtwyfq, vzj qt rjxrt xjwá xn rj xfhf ijxyj ujqnlwtxt tknhnt ij jxhzijwt, js
jq hzfq mj nshzwwnit xjlzsif aje, hjgfit d jslfñfit ij zsf gtqxf hts hnjs
izhfitx vzj rj mfqqé zs iíf js jq htwfeós ij Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, d jq infgqt rj
utsj fsyj qtx totx fvzí, fqqí, fhá st, xnst fhzqqá, zs yfqjlt qqjst ij
itgqtsjx, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj f hfif ufxt qj ytht hts qf rfst, d rj fgwfet
hts éq, d qt qqjat f rn hfxf, d jhmt hjsxtx, d kzsit wjsyfx, d anat htrt zs
uwíshnuj; d jq wfyt vzj js jxyt unjsxt xj rj mfhjs káhnqjx d qqjafijwtx
hzfsytx ywfgfotx ufijeht hts jxyj rjsyjhfyt ij rn frt, ij vznjs xé vzj
ynjsj ráx ij qtht vzj ij hfgfqqjwt.

-Utw jxt -wjxutsinó jq ijq Gtxvzj- inhjs vzj qf htinhnf wtruj jq xfht; d xn
af f ywfyfw ijqqtx, st mfd tywt rfdtw js jq rzsit vzj rn frt, utwvzj jx ij
fvzjqqtx vzj inhjs: "Hznifitx fojstx rfyfs fq fxst"; uzjx, utwvzj htgwj
tywt hfgfqqjwt jq oznhnt vzj mf ujwinit, xj mfhj jq qtht, d fsif gzxhfsit
qt vzj st xé xn ijxuzéx ij mfqqfit qj mf ij xfqnw f qtx mthnhtx.

-D ¿jx jsfrtwfit, utw inhmf?

-Xí -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj-: ij zsf yfq Hfxnqijf ij Afsifqnf, qf ráx hwzif d
qf ráx fxfif xjñtwf vzj js ytit jq twgj uzjij mfqqfwxj; ujwt st htojf ijq
unj ij qf hwzijef, vzj tywtx rfdtwjx jrgzxyjx qj lwzñjs js qfx jsywfñfx, d
jqqt inwá fsyjx ij rzhmfx mtwfx.

-St mfd hfrnst yfs qqfst -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj st yjslf fqlús ywtujeós t
gfwwfsht; js tywfx hfxfx hzjhjs mfgfx, d js qf ríf, f hfqijwfifx; ráx
fhtrufñfitx d ufsnflzfitx ijgj ij yjsjw qf qthzwf vzj qf inxhwjhnós. Rfx xn
jx ajwifi qt vzj htrúsrjsyj xj inhj, vzj jq yjsjw htrufñjwtx js qtx
ywfgfotx xzjqj xjwanw ij fqnant js jqqtx, hts azjxywf rjwhji utiwé
htsxtqfwrj, uzjx xnwaj f tywt frt yfs ytsyt htrt jq rít.

-Ytsyt, ujwt afqnjsyj -wjxutsinó jq ijq Gtxvzj-, d ráx gjqqfht vzj ytsyt d
vzj afqnjsyj.

-Jxt st jx jq rít -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: inlt, vzj st ynjsj sfif ij gjqqfht;
fsyjx ynjsj zsf fqrf htrt zs hásyfwt: st xfgj mfhjw rfq f sfinj, xnst gnjs
f ytitx, sn ynjsj rfqnhnf fqlzsf: zs snñt qj mfwá jsyjsijw vzj jx ij sthmj
js qf rnyfi ijq iíf; d utw jxyf xjshnqqje qj vznjwt htrt f qfx yjqfx ij rn
htwfeós, d st rj frfñt f ijofwqj, utw ráx inxufwfyjx vzj mflf.

-Hts ytit jxt, mjwrfst d xjñtw -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj-, xn jq hnjlt lzíf fq
hnjlt, frgtx afs f ujqnlwt ij hfjw js jq mtdt. Rjotw jx wjynwfwstx hts gzjs
htruáx ij unjx, d atqajwstx f szjxywfx vzjwjshnfx; vzj qtx vzj gzxhfs
fajsyzwfx st xnjruwj qfx mfqqfs gzjsfx.

Jxhzuíf Xfshmt f rjszit, fq ufwjhjw, zs hnjwyt lésjwt ij xfqnaf ujlfotxf d
fqlt xjhf; qt hzfq anxyt d styfit utw jq hfwnyfynat gtxvzjwnq jxhzijwt,
inot:

-Ufwéhjrj vzj ij qt vzj mjrtx mfgqfit xj stx ujlfs fq ufqfifw qfx qjslzfx;
ujwt dt ywfnlt zs ijxujlfitw ujsinjsyj ijq fweós ij rn hfgfqqt, vzj jx yfq
htrt gzjst.

D, qjafsyásitxj, atqanó ijxij fqqí f zs utht hts zsf lwfs gtyf ij anst d
zsf jrufsfif ij rjinf afwf; d st jx jshfwjhnrnjsyt, utwvzj jwf ij zs htsjot
fqgfw, yfs lwfsij vzj Xfshmt, fq ythfwqf, jsyjsinó xjw ij fqlús hfgwós, st
vzj ij hfgwnyt; qt hzfq anxyt utw Xfshmt, inot:

-D ¿jxyt ywfj azjxywf rjwhji htsxnlt, xjñtw?

-Uzjx, ¿vzé xj ujsxfgf? -wjxutsinó jq tywt-. ¿Xtd dt utw ajsyzwf fqlús
jxhzijwt ij flzf d qfsf? Rjotw wjuzjxyt ywfnlt dt js qfx fshfx ij rn
hfgfqqt vzj qqjaf htsxnlt hzfsit af ij hfrnst zs ljsjwfq.

Htrnó Xfshmt xns mfhjwxj ij wtlfw, d ywflfgf f jxhzwfx gthfitx ij szitx ij
xzjqyf. D inot:

-Azjxywf rjwhji xí vzj jx jxhzijwt knjq d qjlfq, rtqnjsyj d htwwnjsyj,
rflsíknht d lwfsij, htrt qt rzjxywf jxyj gfsvzjyj, vzj xn st mf ajsnit fvzí
utw fwyj ij jshfsyfrjsyt, ufwéhjqt, f qt rjstx; d st htrt dt, rjevznst d
rfqfajsyzwfit, vzj xóqt ywfnlt js rnx fqktwofx zs utht ij vzjxt, yfs izwt
vzj uzjijs ijxhfqfgwfw hts jqqt f zs lnlfsyj, f vznjs mfhjs htrufñíf hzfywt
ithjsfx ij fqlfwwtgfx d tywfx yfsyfx ij fajqqfsfx d szjhjx, rjwhjijx f qf
jxywjhmjef ij rn izjñt, d f qf tunsnós vzj ynjsj d twijs vzj lzfwif ij vzj
qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx st xj mfs ij rfsyjsjw d xzxyjsyfw xnst hts kwzyfx
xjhfx d hts qfx djwgfx ijq hfrut.

-Utw rn kj, mjwrfst -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj-, vzj dt st yjslt mjhmt jq
jxyórflt f yflfwsnsfx, sn f unwzéyfstx, sn f wfíhjx ij qtx rtsyjx. Fqqá xj
qt mfdfs hts xzx tunsntsjx d qjdjx hfgfqqjwjxhfx szjxywtx frtx, d htrfs qt
vzj jqqtx rfsifwjs. Knfrgwjwfx ywfnlt, d jxyf gtyf htqlfsit ijq fweós ij qf
xnqqf, utw xí t utw st; d jx yfs ijatyf ríf d vznéwtqf yfsyt, vzj uthtx
wfytx xj ufxfs xns vzj qf ié rnq gjxtx d rnq fgwfetx.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj qf uzxt js qfx rfstx f Xfshmt, jq hzfq, jrunsásitqf,
uzjxyf f qf gthf, jxyzat rnwfsit qfx jxywjqqfx zs hzfwyt ij mtwf, d, js
fhfgfsit ij gjgjw, ijoó hfjw qf hfgjef f zs qfit, d, ifsit zs lwfs xzxunwt,
inot:

-¡Tm mnijuzyf gjqqfht, d hórt jx hfyóqnht!

-¿Ajnx fmí -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj, js tdjsit jq mnijuzyf ij Xfshmt-, hórt
mfgénx fqfgfit jxyj anst qqfrásitqj mnijuzyf?

-Inlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj htsknjxt vzj htsteht vzj st jx ijxmtswf
qqfrfw mnot ij uzyf f sfinj, hzfsit hfj ijgfot ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt ij
fqfgfwqj. Ujwt iílfrj, xjñtw, utw jq xnlqt ij qt vzj ráx vznjwj: ¿jxyj anst
jx ij Hnzifi Wjfq?

-¡Gwfat rtoós! -wjxutsinó jq ijq Gtxvzj-. Js ajwifi vzj st jx ij tywf
ufwyj, d vzj ynjsj fqlzstx fñtx ij fshnfsnifi.

-¡F rí hts jxt! -inot Xfshmt-. St ytrénx rjstx, xnst vzj xj rj kzjwf f rí
utw fqyt ifw fqhfshj f xz htsthnrnjsyt. ¿St xjwá gzjst, xjñtw jxhzijwt, vzj
yjslf dt zs nsxynsyt yfs lwfsij d yfs sfyzwfq, js jxyt ij htsthjw anstx,
vzj, js iásitrj f tqjw hzfqvznjwf, fhnjwyt qf ufywnf, jq qnsfoj, jq xfgtw,
d qf izwf, d qfx azjqyfx vzj mf ij ifw, hts ytifx qfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx fq
anst fyfñjijwfx? Ujwt st mfd ij vzé rfwfanqqfwxj, xn yzaj js rn qnsfoj utw
ufwyj ij rn ufiwj qtx itx ráx jchjqjsyjx rtotsjx vzj js qzjsltx fñtx
htsthnó qf Rfshmf; ufwf uwzjgf ij qt hzfq qjx xzhjinó qt vzj fmtwf inwé:
«Inéwtsqjx f qtx itx f uwtgfw ijq anst ij zsf hzgf, uninésitqjx xz ufwjhjw
ijq jxyfit, hzfqnifi, gtsifi t rfqnhnf ijq anst. Jq zst qt uwtgó hts qf
uzsyf ij qf qjslzf, jq tywt st mnet ráx ij qqjlfwqt f qfx sfwnhjx. Jq
uwnrjwt inot vzj fvzjq anst xfgíf f mnjwwt, jq xjlzsit inot vzj ráx xfgíf f
htwitgás. Jq izjñt inot vzj qf hzgf jxyfgf qnrunf, d vzj jq yfq anst st
yjsíf fitgt fqlzst utw itsij mzgnjxj ytrfit xfgtw ij mnjwwt sn ij htwitgás.
Hts ytit jxt, qtx itx kfrtxtx rtotsjx xj fknwrfwts js qt vzj mfgífs inhmt.
Fsizat jq ynjrut, ajsinóxj jq anst, d fq qnrunfw ij qf hzgf mfqqfwts js
jqqf zsf qqfaj ujvzjñf, ujsinjsyj ij zsf htwwjf ij htwitgás.» Utwvzj ajf
azjxywf rjwhji xn vznjs anjsj ijxyf wfqjf utiwá ifw xz ufwjhjw js
xjrjofsyjx hfzxfx.

-Utw jxt inlt -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj- vzj stx ijojrtx ij fsifw gzxhfsit
fajsyzwfx; d, uzjx yjsjrtx mtlfefx, st gzxvzjrtx ytwyfx, d atqaártstx f
szjxywfx hmtefx, vzj fqqí stx mfqqfwá Intx, xn Éq vznjwj.

-Mfxyf vzj rn frt qqjlzj f Efwfltef, qj xjwanwé; vzj ijxuzéx ytitx stx
jsyjsijwjrtx.

Knsfqrjsyj, yfsyt mfgqfwts d yfsyt gjgnjwts qtx itx gzjstx jxhzijwtx, vzj
yzat sjhjxnifi jq xzjñt ij fyfwqjx qfx qjslzfx d yjruqfwqjx qf xji, vzj
vznyáwxjqf kzjwf nrutxngqj; d fxí, fxnitx jsywfrgtx ij qf df hfxn afhíf
gtyf, hts qtx gthfitx f rjint rfxhfw js qf gthf, xj vzjifwts itwrnitx,
itsij qtx ijofwjrtx utw fmtwf, utw htsyfw qt vzj jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj
ufxó hts jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf.





Hfuíyzqt CNA. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf fajsyzwf ijq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj


Jsywj rzhmfx wfetsjx vzj ufxfwts its Vznotyj d jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Xjqaf,
inhj qf mnxytwnf vzj jq ijq Gtxvzj inot f its Vznotyj:

-Knsfqrjsyj, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, vznjwt vzj xjuánx vzj rn ijxynst, t, utw
rjotw ijhnw, rn jqjhhnós, rj ywzot f jsfrtwfw ij qf xns ufw Hfxnqijf ij
Afsifqnf. Qqártqf xns ufw utwvzj st qj ynjsj, fxí js qf lwfsijef ijq hzjwut
htrt js jq jxywjrt ijq jxyfit d ij qf mjwrtxzwf. Jxyf yfq Hfxnqijf, uzjx,
vzj atd htsyfsit, ufló rnx gzjstx ujsxfrnjsytx d htrjinitx ijxjtx hts
mfhjwrj thzufw, htrt xz rfiwnsf f Méwhzqjx, js rzhmtx d inajwxtx ujqnlwtx,
uwtrjynésitrj fq kns ij hfif zst vzj js jq kns ijq tywt qqjlfwíf jq ij rn
jxujwfsef; ujwt fxí xj mfs nit jxqfgtsfsit rnx ywfgfotx, vzj st ynjsjs
hzjsyt, sn dt xé hzáq mf ij xjw jq úqynrt vzj ié uwnshnunt fq hzruqnrnjsyt
ij rnx gzjstx ijxjtx. Zsf aje rj rfsió vzj kzjxj f ijxfknfw f fvzjqqf
kfrtxf lnlfsyf ij Xjanqqf qqfrfif qf Lnwfqif, vzj jx yfs afqnjsyj d kzjwyj
htrt mjhmf ij gwtshj, d, xns rzifwxj ij zs qzlfw, jx qf ráx rtangqj d
atqyfwnf rzojw ijq rzsit. Qqjlzé, anqf, d ajshíqf, d míhjqf jxyfw vzjif d f
wfdf, utwvzj js ráx ij zsf xjrfsf st xtuqfwts xnst anjsytx stwyjx. Aje
yfrgnés mzgt vzj rj rfsió kzjxj f ytrfw js ujxt qfx fsynlzfx unjiwfx ij qtx
afqnjsyjx Ytwtx ij Lznxfsit, jruwjxf ráx ufwf jshtrjsifwxj f lfsfufsjx vzj
f hfgfqqjwtx. Tywf aje rj rfsió vzj rj uwjhnunyfxj d xzrnjxj js qf xnrf ij
Hfgwf, ujqnlwt nsfzinyt d yjrjwtxt, d vzj qj ywzojxj ufwynhzqfw wjqfhnós ij
qt vzj js fvzjqqf jxhzwf uwtkzsinifi xj jshnjwwf. Ijyzaj jq rtanrnjsyt f qf
Lnwfqif, ujxé qtx Ytwtx ij Lznxfsit, ijxujñérj js qf xnrf d xfvzé f qze qt
jxhtsinit ij xz fgnxrt, d rnx jxujwfsefx, rzjwyfx vzj rzjwyfx, d xzx
rfsifrnjsytx d ijxijsjx, anatx vzj anatx. Js wjxtqzhnós, úqynrfrjsyj rj mf
rfsifit vzj inxhzwwf utw ytifx qfx uwtanshnfx ij Jxufñf d mflf htskjxfw f
ytitx qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx vzj utw jqqfx aflfwjs vzj jqqf xtqf jx qf ráx
fajsyfofif js mjwrtxzwf ij hzfsyfx mtd anajs, d vzj dt xtd jq ráx afqnjsyj
d jq ráx gnjs jsfrtwfit hfgfqqjwt ijq twgj; js hzdf ijrfsif mj fsifit df qf
rfdtw ufwyj ij Jxufñf, d js jqqf mj ajshnit rzhmtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj xj mfs
fywjanit f htsywfijhnwrj. Ujwt ij qt vzj dt ráx rj uwjhnt d zkfst jx ij
mfgjw ajshnit, js xnslzqfw gfyfqqf, f fvzjq yfs kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, d méhmtqj htskjxfw vzj jx ráx mjwrtxf rn Hfxnqijf vzj
xz Izqhnsjf; d js xtqt jxyj ajshnrnjsyt mflt hzjsyf vzj mj ajshnit ytitx
qtx hfgfqqjwtx ijq rzsit, utwvzj jq yfq its Vznotyj vzj inlt qtx mf ajshnit
f ytitx; d, mfgnésitqj dt ajshnit f éq, xz lqtwnf, xz kfrf d xz mtswf xj mf
ywfsxkjwnit d ufxfit f rn ujwxtsf;

d yfsyt jq ajshjitw jx ráx mtswfit,

hzfsyt ráx jq ajshnit jx wjuzyfit;

fxí vzj, df htwwjs utw rn hzjsyf d xts rífx qfx nszrjwfgqjx mfefñfx ijq df
wjkjwnit its Vznotyj.

Firnwfit vzjió its Vznotyj ij tíw fq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj, d jxyzat rnq
ajhjx utw ijhnwqj vzj rjsyíf, d df yzat jq rjsyíx js jq unht ij qf qjslzf;
ujwt wjutwyóxj qt rjotw vzj uzit, utw mfhjwqj htskjxfw utw xz uwtunf gthf
xz rjsynwf; d fxí, xtxjlfifrjsyj qj inot:

-Ij vzj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, mfdf ajshnit f qtx ráx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx ij Jxufñf, d fzs ij ytit jq rzsit, st inlt sfif; ujwt ij vzj mfdf
ajshnit f its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, uósltqt js izif. Utiwíf xjw vzj kzjxj
tywt vzj qj ufwjhnjxj, fzsvzj mfd uthtx vzj qj ufwjehfs.

-¿Hórt st? -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj-. Utw jq hnjqt vzj stx hzgwj, vzj ujqjé
hts its Vznotyj, d qj ajshí d wjsií; d jx zs mtrgwj fqyt ij hzjwut, xjht ij
wtxywt, jxynwfit d fajqqfsfit ij rnjrgwtx, jsywjhfst, qf sfwne flznqjñf d
fqlt htwaf, ij gnltyjx lwfsijx, sjlwtx d hfíitx. Hfrujf ijgfot ijq strgwj
ijq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, d ywfj utw jxhzijwt f zs qfgwfitw
qqfrfit Xfshmt Ufsef; tuwnrj jq qtrt d wnlj jq kwjst ij zs kfrtxt hfgfqqt
qqfrfit Wthnsfsyj, d, knsfqrjsyj, ynjsj utw xjñtwf ij xz atqzsyfi f zsf yfq
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, qqfrfif zs ynjrut Fqitsef Qtwjset; htrt qf ríf, vzj,
utw qqfrfwxj Hfxnqif d xjw ij qf Fsifqzhíf, dt qf qqfrt Hfxnqijf ij
Afsifqnf. Xn ytifx jxyfx xjñfx st gfxyfs ufwf fhwjinyfw rn ajwifi, fvzí
jxyá rn jxufif, vzj qf mfwá ifw hwéinyt f qf rjxrf nshwjizqnifi.

-Xtxjlftx, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt -inot its Vznotyj-, d jxhzhmfi qt vzj ijhnw tx
vznjwt. Mfgénx ij xfgjw vzj jxj its Vznotyj vzj ijhíx jx jq rfdtw frnlt vzj
js jxyj rzsit yjslt, d yfsyt, vzj utiwé ijhnw vzj qj yjslt js qzlfw ij rn
rnxrf ujwxtsf, d vzj utw qfx xjñfx vzj iéq rj mfgénx ifit, yfs uzsyzfqjx d
hnjwyfx, st uzjit ujsxfw xnst vzj xjf jq rnxrt vzj mfgénx ajshnit. Utw tywf
ufwyj, ajt hts qtx totx d ytht hts qfx rfstx st xjw utxngqj xjw jq rjxrt,
xn df st kzjxj vzj htrt éq ynjsj rzhmtx jsjrnltx jshfsyfitwjx,
jxujhnfqrjsyj zst vzj ij twinsfwnt qj ujwxnlzj, st mfdf fqlzst ijqqtx
ytrfit xz knlzwf ufwf ijofwxj ajshjw, utw ijkwfzifwqj ij qf kfrf vzj xzx
fqyfx hfgfqqjwífx qj ynjsjs lwfsojfif d fivznwnif utw ytit qt ijxhzgnjwyt
ij qf ynjwwf. D, ufwf htsknwrfhnós ijxyt, vznjwt yfrgnés vzj xjuánx vzj qtx
yfqjx jshfsyfitwjx xzx htsywfwntx st mf ráx ij itx iífx vzj ywfsxktwrfwts
qf knlzwf d ujwxtsf ij qf mjwrtxf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt js zsf fqijfsf xtje d
gfof, d ijxyf rfsjwf mfgwás ywfsxktwrfit f its Vznotyj; d xn ytit jxyt st
gfxyf ufwf jsyjwfwtx js jxyf ajwifi vzj inlt, fvzí jxyá jq rjxrt its
Vznotyj, vzj qf xzxyjsyfwá hts xzx fwrfx f unj, t f hfgfqqt, t ij
hzfqvznjwf xzjwyj vzj tx flwfifwj.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj qjafsyó js unj d xj jruzñó js qf jxufif, jxujwfsit vzé
wjxtqzhnós ytrfwíf jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Gtxvzj; jq hzfq, hts ate fxnrnxrt
xtxjlfif, wjxutsinó d inot:

-Fq gzjs uflfitw st qj izjqjs uwjsifx: jq vzj zsf aje, xjñtw its Vznotyj,
uzit ajshjwtx ywfsxktwrfit, gnjs utiwá yjsjw jxujwfsef ij wjsinwtx js
azjxywt uwtunt xjw. Rfx, utwvzj st jx gnjs vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx mflfs xzx
kjhmtx ij fwrfx fxhzwfx, htrt qtx xfqyjfitwjx d wzknfsjx, jxujwjrtx jq iíf,
ufwf vzj jq xtq ajf szjxywfx tgwfx. D mf ij xjw htsinhnós ij szjxywf
gfyfqqf vzj jq ajshnit mf ij vzjifw f qf atqzsyfi ijq ajshjitw, ufwf vzj
mflf iéq ytit qt vzj vznxnjwj, hts yfq vzj xjf ijhjsyj f hfgfqqjwt qt vzj
xj qj twijsfwj.

-Xtd ráx vzj htsyjsyt ijxf htsinhnós d htsajsjshnf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, xj kzjwts itsij jxyfgfs xzx jxhzijwtx, d qtx mfqqfwts
wtshfsit d js qf rnxrf ktwrf vzj jxyfgfs hzfsit qjx xfqyjó jq xzjñt.
Ijxujwyáwtsqtx d rfsiáwtsqjx vzj yzanjxjs f uzsyt qtx hfgfqqtx, utwvzj, js
xfqnjsit jq xtq, mfgífs ij mfhjw qtx itx zsf xfslwnjsyf, xnslzqfw d
ijxnlzfq gfyfqqf; f hzdfx szjafx vzjió Xfshmt fyósnyt d ufxrfit, yjrjwtxt
ij qf xfqzi ij xz frt, utw qfx afqjsyífx vzj mfgíf tíit ijhnw ijq xzdt fq
jxhzijwt ijq Gtxvzj; ujwt, xns mfgqfw ufqfgwf, xj kzjwts qtx itx jxhzijwtx
f gzxhfw xz lfsfit, vzj df ytitx ywjx hfgfqqtx d jq wzhnt xj mfgífs tqnit,
d jxyfgfs ytitx ozsytx.

Js jq hfrnst inot jq ijq Gtxvzj f Xfshmt:

-Mf ij xfgjw, mjwrfst, vzj ynjsjs utw htxyzrgwj qtx ujqjfsyjx ij qf
Fsifqzhíf, hzfsit xts ufiwnstx ij fqlzsf ujsijshnf, st jxyfwxj thntxtx rfst
xtgwj rfst js yfsyt vzj xzx fmnofitx wnñjs. Iíltqt utwvzj jxyé fiajwynit
vzj rnjsywfx szjxywtx izjñtx wnñjwjs, stxtywtx yfrgnés mjrtx ij ujqjfw d
mfhjwstx fxynqqfx.

-Jxf htxyzrgwj, xjñtw jxhzijwt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, fqqá uzjij htwwjw d
ufxfw hts qtx wzknfsjx d ujqjfsyjx vzj inhj, ujwt hts qtx jxhzijwtx ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, sn utw unjsxt. F qt rjstx, dt st mj tíit ijhnw f rn
frt xjrjofsyj htxyzrgwj, d xfgj ij rjrtwnf ytifx qfx twijsfsefx ij qf
fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt vznjwt vzj xjf ajwifi d twijsfsef
jcuwjxf jq ujqjfw qtx jxhzijwtx js yfsyt vzj xzx xjñtwjx ujqjfs; ujwt dt st
vznjwt hzruqnwqf, xnst uflfw qf ujsf vzj jxyzanjwj uzjxyf f qtx yfqjx
ufhíknhtx jxhzijwtx, vzj dt fxjlzwt vzj st ufxj ij itx qngwfx ij hjwf, d
ráx vznjwt uflfw qfx yfqjx qngwfx, vzj xé vzj rj htxyfwás rjstx vzj qfx
mnqfx vzj utiwé lfxyfw js hzwfwrj qf hfgjef, vzj df rj qf hzjsyt utw
ufwynif d inaninif js itx ufwyjx. Mfd ráx: vzj rj nrutxngnqnyf jq wjñnw jq
st yjsjw jxufif, uzjx js rn anif rj qf uzxj.

-Ufwf jxt xé dt zs gzjs wjrjint -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj-: dt ywfnlt fvzí itx
yfqjlfx ij qnjset, ij zs rjxrt yfrfñt: ytrfwénx atx qf zsf, d dt qf tywf, d
wnñnwjrtx f yfqjlfetx, hts fwrfx nlzfqjx.

-Ijxf rfsjwf, xjf js gzjsf mtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj fsyjx xjwanwá qf
yfq ujqjf ij ijxutqatwjfwstx vzj ij mjwnwstx.

-St mf ij xjw fxí -wjuqnhó jq tywt-, utwvzj xj mfs ij jhmfw ijsywt ij qfx
yfqjlfx, utwvzj st xj qfx qqjaj jq fnwj, rjinf ithjsf ij lznofwwtx qnsitx d
ujqfitx, vzj ujxjs yfsyt qtx zstx htrt qtx tywtx, d ijxyf rfsjwf stx
utiwjrtx fyfqjlfw xns mfhjwstx rfq sn ifñt.

-¡Rnwfi, hzjwut ij rn ufiwj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzé rfwyfx hjgtqqnsfx, t
vzé htutx ij fqltiós hfwifit utsj js qfx yfqjlfx, ufwf st vzjifw rtqnitx
qtx hfxhtx d mjhmtx fqmjñf qtx mzjxtx! Ujwt, fzsvzj xj qqjsfwfs ij hfuzqqtx
ij xjif, xjuf, xjñtw rít, vzj st mj ij ujqjfw: ujqjjs szjxywtx frtx, d fqqá
xj qt mfdfs, d gjgfrtx d anafrtx stxtywtx, vzj jq ynjrut ynjsj hznifit ij
vznyfwstx qfx anifx, xns vzj fsijrtx gzxhfsit fujynyjx ufwf vzj xj fhfgjs
fsyjx ij qqjlfw xz xfeós d yéwrnst d vzj xj hfdfs ij rfizwfx.

-Hts ytit -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj-, mjrtx ij ujqjfw xnvznjwf rjinf mtwf.

-Jxt st -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: st xjwé dt yfs ijxhtwyéx sn yfs ijxflwfijhnit,
vzj hts vznjs mj htrnit d mj gjgnit ywfgj hzjxynós fqlzsf, utw rísnrf vzj
xjf; hzfsyt ráx vzj, jxyfsit xns hóqjwf d xns jstot, ¿vznés infgqtx xj mf
ij frfñfw f wjñnw f xjhfx?

-Ufwf jxt -inot jq ijq Gtxvzj- dt ifwé zs xzknhnjsyj wjrjint: d jx vzj,
fsyjx vzj htrjshjrtx qf ujqjf, dt rj qqjlfwé gtsnyfrjsyj f azjxywf rjwhji
d qj ifwé ywjx t hzfywt gtkjyfifx, vzj ié hts éq f rnx unjx, hts qfx hzfqjx
qj mfwé ijxujwyfw qf hóqjwf, fzsvzj jxyé hts ráx xzjñt vzj zs qnwós.

-Htsywf jxj htwyj xé dt tywt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st qj af js eflf:
htljwé dt zs lfwwtyj, d, fsyjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji qqjlzj f ijxujwyfwrj qf
hóqjwf, mfwé dt itwrnw f lfwwtyfetx ij yfq xzjwyj qf xzdf, vzj st ijxunjwyj
xn st kzjwj js jq tywt rzsit, js jq hzfq xj xfgj vzj st xtd dt mtrgwj vzj
rj ijot rfstxjfw jq wtxywt ij sfinj; d hfif zst rnwj utw jq anwtyj, fzsvzj
qt ráx fhjwyfit xjwíf ijofw itwrnw xz hóqjwf f hfif zst, vzj st xfgj sfinj
jq fqrf ij sfinj, d yfq xzjqj ajsnw utw qfsf vzj azjqaj ywjxvznqfit; d Intx
gjsinot qf ufe d rfqinot qfx wnñfx, utwvzj xn zs lfyt fhtxfit, jshjwwfit d
fuwjyfit xj azjqaj js qjós, dt, vzj xtd mtrgwj, Intx xfgj js qt vzj utiwé
atqajwrj; d fxí, ijxij fmtwf nsynrt f azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw jxhzijwt, vzj
htwwf utw xz hzjsyf ytit jq rfq d ifñt vzj ij szjxywf ujsijshnf wjxzqyfwj.

-Jxyá gnjs -wjuqnhó jq ijq Gtxvzj-. Frfsjhjwá Intx d rjiwfwjrtx.

Js jxyt, df htrjsefgfs f ltwojfw js qtx áwgtqjx rnq xzjwyjx ij unsyfitx
ufofwnqqtx, d js xzx inajwxtx d fqjlwjx hfsytx ufwjhíf vzj ifgfs qf
stwfgzjsf d xfqzifgfs f qf kwjxhf fzwtwf, vzj df utw qfx uzjwyfx d gfqhtsjx
ijq twnjsyj ngf ijxhzgwnjsit qf mjwrtxzwf ij xz wtxywt, xfhzinjsit ij xzx
hfgjqqtx zs súrjwt nsknsnyt ij qívznifx ujwqfx, js hzdt xzfaj qnhtw
gfñásitxj qfx djwgfx, ufwjhíf fxnrjxrt vzj jqqfx gwtyfgfs d qqtaífs
gqfsht d rjszit fqoókfw; qtx xfzhjx ijxynqfgfs rfsá xfgwtxt, wjífsxj qfx
kzjsyjx, rzwrzwfgfs qtx fwwtdtx, fqjlwágfsxj qfx xjqafx d jswnvzjhífsxj qtx
uwfitx hts xz ajsnif. Rfx, fujsfx int qzlfw qf hqfwnifi ijq iíf ufwf ajw d
inkjwjshnfw qfx htxfx, hzfsit qf uwnrjwf vzj xj tkwjhnó f qtx totx ij
Xfshmt Ufsef kzj qf sfwne ijq jxhzijwt ijq Gtxvzj, vzj jwf yfs lwfsij vzj
hfxn qj mfhíf xtrgwf f ytit jq hzjwut. Hzésyfxj, js jkjhyt, vzj jwf ij
ijrfxnfif lwfsijef, htwaf js qf rnyfi d ytif qqjsf ij ajwwzlfx, ij htqtw
frtwfyfit, htrt ij gjwjsojsf; gfoágfqj itx ijitx ráx fgfot ij qf gthf; hzdf
lwfsijef, htqtw, ajwwzlfx d jshtwafrnjsyt fxí qj fkjfgfs jq wtxywt, vzj, js
anésitqj Xfshmt, htrjseó f mjwnw ij unj d ij rfst, htrt snñt hts fqkjwjhíf,
d uwtuzxt js xz htwfeós ij ijofwxj ifw ithnjsyfx gtkjyfifx fsyjx vzj
ijxujwyfw qf hóqjwf ufwf wjñnw hts fvzjq ajxynlqt.

Its Vznotyj rnwó f xz htsyjsitw, d mfqqóqj df uzjxyf d hfqfif qf hjqfif, ij
rtit vzj st qj uzit ajw jq wtxywt, ujwt styó vzj jwf mtrgwj rjrgwzit, d st
rzd fqyt ij hzjwut. Xtgwj qfx fwrfx ywfíf zsf xtgwjanxyf t hfxfhf ij zsf
yjqf, fq ufwjhjw, ij twt knsíxnrt, xjrgwfifx utw jqqf rzhmfx qzsfx ujvzjñfx
ij wjxuqfsijhnjsyjx jxujotx, vzj qj mfhífs js lwfsiíxnrf rfsjwf lfqás d
anxytxt; atqágfsqj xtgwj qf hjqfif lwfsij hfsynifi ij uqzrfx ajwijx,
frfwnqqfx d gqfshfx; qf qfsef, vzj yjsíf fwwnrfif f zs áwgtq, jwf
lwfsiíxnrf d lwzjxf, d ij zs mnjwwt fhjwfit ij ráx ij zs ufqrt.

Ytit qt rnwó d ytit qt styó its Vznotyj, d ozeló ij qt anxyt d rnwfit vzj
jq df inhmt hfgfqqjwt ijgíf ij xjw ij lwfsijx kzjwefx; ujwt st utw jxt
yjrnó, htrt Xfshmt Ufsef; fsyjx, hts ljsynq ijszjit, inot fq Hfgfqqjwt ij
qtx Jxujotx:

-Xn qf rzhmf lfsf ij ujqjfw, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, st tx lfxyf qf htwyjxíf, utw
jqqf tx unit vzj fqhénx qf anxjwf zs utht, utwvzj dt ajf xn qf lfqqfwiíf ij
azjxywt wtxywt wjxutsij f qf ij azjxywf inxutxnhnós.

-T ajshnit t ajshjitw vzj xfqlánx ijxyf jruwjxf, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt -wjxutsinó
jq ij qtx Jxujotx-, tx vzjifwá ynjrut d jxufhnt ijrfxnfit ufwf ajwrj; d xn
fmtwf st xfynxkflt f azjxywt ijxjt, jx utw ufwjhjwrj vzj mflt styfgqj
flwfant f qf mjwrtxf Hfxnqijf ij Afsifqnf js inqfyfw jq ynjrut vzj yfwifwj
js fqefwrj qf anxjwf, xns mfhjwtx htskjxfw qt vzj df xfgénx vzj uwjyjsit.

-Uzjx, js yfsyt vzj xzgnrtx f hfgfqqt -inot its Vznotyj-, gnjs utiénx
ijhnwrj xn xtd dt fvzjq its Vznotyj vzj inonxyjx mfgjw ajshnit.

-F jxt atx wjxutsijrtx -inot jq ij qtx Jxujotx- vzj ufwjhénx, htrt xj
ufwjhj zs mzjat f tywt, fq rnxrt hfgfqqjwt vzj dt ajshí; ujwt, xjlús atx
ijhíx vzj qj ujwxnlzjs jshfsyfitwjx, st txfwé fknwrfw xn xtnx jq htsyjsnit
t st.

-Jxt rj gfxyf f rí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- ufwf vzj hwjf azjxywt jslfñt;
jrujwt, ufwf xfhfwtx iéq ij ytit uzsyt, ajslfs szjxywtx hfgfqqtx; vzj, js
rjstx ynjrut vzj jq vzj yfwiáwfijx js fqefwtx qf anxjwf, xn Intx, xn rn
xjñtwf d rn gwfet rj afqjs, ajwé dt azjxywt wtxywt, d atx ajwénx vzj st xtd
dt jq ajshnit its Vznotyj vzj ujsxánx.

Hts jxyt, fhtwyfsit wfetsjx, xzgnjwts f hfgfqqt, d its Vznotyj atqanó qfx
wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj ufwf ytrfw qt vzj htsajsíf ijq hfrut, ufwf atqajw f
jshtsywfw f xz htsywfwnt, d qt rjxrt mnet jq ij qtx Jxujotx. Ujwt, st xj
mfgíf fufwyfit its Vznotyj ajnsyj ufxtx, hzfsit xj tdó qqfrfw ijq ij qtx
Jxujotx, d, ufwynjsit qtx itx jq hfrnst, jq ij qtx Jxujotx qj inot:

-Fiajwyni, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, vzj qf htsinhnós ij szjxywf gfyfqqf jx vzj jq
ajshnit, htrt tywf aje mj inhmt, mf ij vzjifw f inxhwjhnós ijq ajshjitw.

-Df qf xé -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; hts yfq vzj qt vzj xj qj nruzxnjwj d
rfsifwj fq ajshnit mfs ij xjw htxfx vzj st xfqlfs ij qtx qírnyjx ij qf
hfgfqqjwíf.

-Fxí xj jsynjsij -wjxutsinó jq ij qtx Jxujotx.

Tkwjhnéwtsxjqj js jxyt f qf anxyf ij its Vznotyj qfx jxywfñfx sfwnhjx ijq
jxhzijwt, d st xj firnwó rjstx ij ajwqfx vzj Xfshmt; yfsyt, vzj qj ozeló
utw fqlús rtsxywt, t utw mtrgwj szjat d ij fvzjqqtx vzj st xj zxfs js jq
rzsit. Xfshmt, vzj ant ufwynw f xz frt ufwf ytrfw hfwwjwf, st vznxt vzjifw
xtqt hts jq sfwnlzit, yjrnjsit vzj hts xtqt zs ufxfltsefqt hts fvzjqqfx
sfwnhjx js qfx xzdfx xjwíf fhfgfif qf ujsijshnf xzdf, vzjifsit ijq ltquj, t
ijq rnjit, yjsinit js jq xzjqt, d kzjxj ywfx xz frt, fxnit f zsf fhhnós ij
Wthnsfsyj; d, hzfsit qj ufwjhnó vzj df jwf ynjrut vzj atqanjxj, qj inot:

-Xzuqnht f azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, vzj fsyjx vzj azjqaf f jshtsywfwxj rj
fdzij f xzgnw xtgwj fvzjq fqhtwstvzj, ij itsij utiwé ajw ráx f rn xfgtw,
rjotw vzj ijxij jq xzjqt, jq lfqqfwit jshzjsywt vzj azjxf rjwhji mf ij
mfhjw hts jxyj hfgfqqjwt.

-Fsyjx hwjt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj yj vznjwjx jshfwfrfw d xzgnw js
fsifrnt utw ajw xns ujqnlwt qtx ytwtx.

-Qf ajwifi vzj inlf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, qfx ijxfktwfifx sfwnhjx ij fvzjq
jxhzijwt rj ynjsjs fyósnyt d qqjst ij jxufsyt, d st rj fywjat f jxyfw ozsyt
f éq.

-Jqqfx xts yfqjx -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, f st xjw dt vznjs xtd, yfrgnés rj
fxtrgwfwfs; d fxí, ajs: fdzifwyj mj f xzgnw itsij inhjx.

Js qt vzj xj ijyzat its Vznotyj js vzj Xfshmt xzgnjxj js jq fqhtwstvzj,
ytró jq ij qtx Jxujotx ijq hfrut qt vzj qj ufwjhnó sjhjxfwnt; d, hwjdjsit
vzj qt rnxrt mfgwíf mjhmt its Vznotyj, xns jxujwfw xts ij ywtrujyf sn tywf
xjñfq vzj qtx fanxfxj, atqanó qfx wnjsifx f xz hfgfqqt -vzj st jwf ráx
qnljwt sn ij rjotw ufwjhjw vzj Wthnsfsyj-, d, f ytit xz htwwjw, vzj jwf zs
rjinfst ywtyj, ngf f jshtsywfw f xz jsjrnlt; ujwt, anésitqj thzufit js qf
xzgnif ij Xfshmt, ijyzat qfx wnjsifx d ufwóxj js qf rnyfi ij qf hfwwjwf, ij
qt vzj jq hfgfqqt vzjió flwfijhniíxnrt, f hfzxf vzj df st utiíf rtajwxj.
Its Vznotyj, vzj qj ufwjhnó vzj df xz jsjrnlt ajsíf atqfsit, fwwnró
wjhnfrjsyj qfx jxuzjqfx f qfx ywfxnofifx nofifx ij Wthnsfsyj, d qj mnet
flznofw ij rfsjwf, vzj hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf vzj jxyf xtqf aje xj htsthnó
mfgjw htwwnit fqlt, utwvzj ytifx qfx ijráx xnjruwj kzjwts ywtyjx
ijhqfwfitx; d hts jxyf st anxyf kzwnf qqjló itsij jq ij qtx Jxujotx jxyfgf
mnshfsit f xz hfgfqqt qfx jxuzjqfx mfxyf qtx gtytsjx, xns vzj qj uzinjxj
rtajw zs xtqt ijit ijq qzlfw itsij mfgíf mjhmt jxyfsht ij xz hfwwjwf.

Js jxyf gzjsf xfeós d htdzsyzwf mfqqó its Vznotyj f xz htsywfwnt jrgfwfefit
hts xz hfgfqqt d thzufit hts xz qfsef, vzj szshf, t st fhjwyó, t st yzat
qzlfw ij utsjwqf js wnxywj. Its Vznotyj, vzj st rnwfgf js jxytx
nshtsajsnjsyjx, f xfqafrfst d xns ujqnlwt fqlzst, jshtsywó fq ij qtx
Jxujotx hts yfsyf kzjwef, vzj rfq ij xz lwfit qj mnet ajsnw fq xzjqt utw
qfx fshfx ijq hfgfqqt, ifsit yfq hfíif, vzj, xns rtajw unj sn rfst, int
xjñfqjx ij vzj jxyfgf rzjwyt.

Fujsfx qj ant hfíit Xfshmt, hzfsit xj ijxqneó ijq fqhtwstvzj d f ytif
uwnjxf anst itsij xz xjñtw jxyfgf, jq hzfq, fujásitxj ij Wthnsfsyj, kzj
xtgwj jq ij qtx Jxujotx, d, vznyásitqj qfx qfefifx ijq djqrt ufwf ajw xn
jwf rzjwyt d ufwf vzj qj injxj jq fnwj xn fhfxt jxyfgf anat; d ant...
¿Vznés utiwá ijhnw qt vzj ant, xns hfzxfw firnwfhnós, rfwfanqqf d jxufsyt f
qtx vzj qt tdjwjs? Ant, inhj qf mnxytwnf, jq wtxywt rjxrt, qf rnxrf knlzwf,
jq rjxrt fxujhyt, qf rnxrf knxtstríf, qf rjxrf jknlnj, qf ujxujynaf rjxrf
ijq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht; d, fxí htrt qf ant, js fqyfx athjx inot:

-¡Fhzij, Xfshmt, d rnwf qt vzj mfx ij ajw d st qt mfx hwjjw! ¡Flznof, mnot,
d fianjwyj qt vzj uzjij qf rflnf, qt vzj uzjijs qtx mjhmnhjwtx d qtx
jshfsyfitwjx!

Qqjló Xfshmt, d, htrt ant jq wtxywt ijq gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht, htrjseó f
mfhjwxj rnq hwzhjx d f xfsynlzfwxj tywfx yfsyfx. Js ytit jxyt, st ifgf
rzjxywfx ij jxyfw anat jq ijwwngfit hfgfqqjwt, d Xfshmt inot f its Vznotyj:

-Xtd ij ufwjhjw, xjñtw rít, vzj, utw xí t utw st, azjxf rjwhji mnsvzj d
rjyf qf jxufif utw qf gthf f jxyj vzj ufwjhj jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht;
vzneá rfyfwá js éq f fqlzst ij xzx jsjrnltx qtx jshfsyfitwjx.

-St inhjx rfq -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj ij qtx jsjrnltx, qtx rjstx.

D, xfhfsit qf jxufif ufwf utsjw js jkjhyt jq fanxt d htsxjot ij Xfshmt,
qqjló jq jxhzijwt ijq ij qtx Jxujotx, df xns qfx sfwnhjx vzj yfs kjt qj
mfgífs mjhmt, d f lwfsijx athjx inot:

-Rnwj azjxf rjwhji qt vzj mfhj, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj jxj vzj ynjsj f qtx
unjx jx jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, xz frnlt, d dt xtd xz jxhzijwt.

D, anésitqj Xfshmt xns fvzjqqf kjfqifi uwnrjwf, qj inot:

-¿D qfx sfwnhjx?

F qt vzj éq wjxutsinó:

-Fvzí qfx yjslt, js qf kfqiwnvzjwf.

D, jhmfsit rfst f qf ijwjhmf, xfhó zsfx sfwnhjx ij ufxyf d gfwsne, ij
ráxhfwf, ij qf rfsnkfyzwf vzj vzjifs ijqnsjfifx. D, rnwásitqj ráx d ráx
Xfshmt, hts ate firnwfynaf d lwfsij, inot:

-¡Xfsyf Rfwíf, d afqrj! ¿Éxyj st jx Ytré Hjhnfq, rn ajhnst d rn htrufiwj?

-D ¡hórt xn qt xtd! -wjxutsinó jq df ijxsfwnlfit jxhzijwt-: Ytré Hjhnfq
xtd, htrufiwj d frnlt Xfshmt Ufsef, d qzjlt tx inwé qtx fwhfizhjx, jrgzxyjx
d jswjitx utw itsij xtd fvzí ajsnit; d js yfsyt, ujini d xzuqnhfi fq xjñtw
azjxywt frt vzj st ytvzj, rfqywfyj, mnjwf sn rfyj fq hfgfqqjwt ij qtx
Jxujotx, vzj f xzx unjx ynjsj, utwvzj xns izif fqlzsf jx jq fywjanit d rfq
fhtsxjofit ijq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, szjxywt htrufywntyt.

Js jxyt, atqanó js xí jq ij qtx Jxujotx, qt hzfq anxyt utw its Vznotyj, qj
uzxt qf uzsyf ijxszif ij xz jxufif jshnrf ijq wtxywt, d qj inot:

-Rzjwyt xtnx, hfgfqqjwt, xn st htskjxánx vzj qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt
xj fajsyfof js gjqqjef f azjxywf Hfxnqijf ij Afsifqnf; d ijráx ij jxyt
mfgénx ij uwtrjyjw, xn ij jxyf htsynjsif d hfíif vzjiáwfijx hts anif, ij nw
f qf hnzifi ijq Ytgtxt d uwjxjsyfwtx js xz uwjxjshnf ij rn ufwyj, ufwf vzj
mflf ij atx qt vzj ráx js atqzsyfi qj ansnjwj; d xn tx ijofwj js qf
azjxywf, fxnrnxrt mfgénx ij atqajw f gzxhfwrj, vzj jq wfxywt ij rnx mfefñfx
tx xjwanwá ij lzíf vzj tx ywfnlf itsij dt jxyzanjwj, d f ijhnwrj qt vzj hts
jqqf mzgnéwjijx ufxfit; htsinhntsjx vzj, htsktwrj f qfx vzj uzxnrtx fsyjx
ij szjxywf gfyfqqf, st xfqjs ij qtx yéwrnstx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf.

-Htsknjxt -inot jq hfíit hfgfqqjwt- vzj afqj ráx jq efufyt ijxhtxnit d
xzhnt ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt vzj qfx gfwgfx rfq ujnsfifx, fzsvzj
qnrunfx, ij Hfxnqijf, d uwtrjyt ij nw d atqajw ij xz uwjxjshnf f qf
azjxywf, d ifwtx jsyjwf d ufwynhzqfw hzjsyf ij qt vzj rj ujiíx.

-Yfrgnés mfgénx ij htskjxfw d hwjjw -fñfinó its Vznotyj- vzj fvzjq
hfgfqqjwt vzj ajshnxyjx st kzj sn uzit xjw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, xnst
tywt vzj xj qj ufwjhíf, htrt dt htsknjxt d hwjt vzj atx, fzsvzj ufwjhénx jq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, st qt xtnx, xnst tywt vzj qj ufwjhj, d vzj js xz
knlzwf fvzí rj qj mfs uzjxyt rnx jsjrnltx, ufwf vzj ijyjslf d yjruqj jq
írujyz ij rn hóqjwf, d ufwf vzj zxj gqfsifrjsyj ij qf lqtwnf ijq
ajshnrnjsyt.

-Ytit qt htsknjxt, ozelt d xnjsyt htrt atx qt hwjénx, ozelánx d xjsyíx
-wjxutsinó jq ijwwjslfit hfgfqqjwt-. Ijofirj qjafsyfw, tx wzjlt, xn jx vzj
qt ujwrnyj jq ltquj ij rn hfíif, vzj fxfe rfqywjhmt rj ynjsj.

Fdzióqj f qjafsyfw its Vznotyj d Ytré Hjhnfq, xz jxhzijwt, ijq hzfq st
fufwyfgf qtx totx Xfshmt, uwjlzsyásitqj htxfx hzdfx wjxuzjxyfx qj ifgfs
rfsnknjxyfx xjñfqjx ij vzj ajwifijwfrjsyj jwf jq Ytré Hjhnfq vzj ijhíf; rfx
qf fuwjmjsxnós vzj js Xfshmt mfgíf mjhmt qt vzj xz frt inot, ij vzj qtx
jshfsyfitwjx mfgífs rzifit qf knlzwf ijq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Jxujotx js qf ijq
gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht, st qj ijofgf ifw hwéinyt f qf ajwifi vzj hts qtx totx
jxyfgf rnwfsit. Knsfqrjsyj, xj vzjifwts hts jxyj jslfñt frt d rtet, d jq ij
qtx Jxujotx d xz jxhzijwt, rtmístx d rfqfsifsyjx, xj fufwyfwts ij its
Vznotyj d Xfshmt, hts nsyjshnós ij gzxhfw fqlús qzlfw itsij gnerfwqj d
jsyfgqfwqj qfx htxynqqfx. Its Vznotyj d Xfshmt atqanjwts f uwtxjlznw xz
hfrnst ij Efwfltef, itsij qtx ijof qf mnxytwnf, utw ifw hzjsyf ij vznés jwf
jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Jxujotx d xz sfwnlfsyj jxhzijwt.





Hfuíyzqt CA. Itsij xj hzjsyf d if stynhnf ij vznés jwf jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx
Jxujotx d xz jxhzijwt


Js jxywjrt htsyjsyt, zkfst d afsflqtwntxt ngf its Vznotyj utw mfgjw
fqhfsefit anytwnf ij yfs afqnjsyj hfgfqqjwt htrt éq xj nrflnsfgf vzj jwf jq
ij qtx Jxujotx, ij hzdf hfgfqqjwjxhf ufqfgwf jxujwfgf xfgjw xn jq
jshfsyfrjsyt ij xz xjñtwf ufxfgf fijqfsyj, uzjx jwf ktwetxt vzj jq yfq
ajshnit hfgfqqjwt atqanjxj, xt ujsf ij st xjwqt, f ifwqj wfeós ij qt vzj
hts jqqf qj mzgnjxj xzhjinit. Ujwt zst ujsxfgf its Vznotyj d tywt jq ij qtx
Jxujotx, uzjxyt vzj utw jsytshjx st jwf tywt xz ujsxfrnjsyt xnst gzxhfw
itsij gnerfwxj, htrt xj mf inhmt.

Inhj, uzjx, qf mnxytwnf vzj hzfsit jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht fhtsxjoó f
its Vznotyj vzj atqanjxj f uwtxjlznw xzx ijofifx hfgfqqjwífx, kzj utw mfgjw
jsywfit uwnrjwt js gzwjt hts jq hzwf d jq gfwgjwt xtgwj vzé rjint xj utiwíf
ytrfw ufwf wjizhnw f its Vznotyj f vzj xj jxyzanjxj js xz hfxf vznjyt d
xtxjlfit, xns vzj qj fqgtwtyfxjs xzx rfq gzxhfifx fajsyzwfx; ij hzdt
htsxjot xfqnó, utw atyt htrús ij ytitx d ufwjhjw ufwynhzqfw ij Hfwwfxht,
vzj ijofxjs xfqnw f its Vznotyj, uzjx jq ijyjsjwqj ufwjhíf nrutxngqj, d vzj
Xfsxós qj xfqnjxj fq hfrnst htrt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, d ywfgfxj gfyfqqf hts
éq, uzjx st kfqyfwíf xtgwj vzé, d qj ajshnjxj, yjsnésitqt utw htxf káhnq, d
vzj kzjxj ufhyt d htshnjwyt vzj jq ajshnit vzjifxj f rjwhji ijq ajshjitw; d
fxí ajshnit its Vznotyj, qj mfgíf ij rfsifw jq gfhmnqqjw hfgfqqjwt xj
atqanjxj f xz uzjgqt d hfxf, d st xfqnjxj ijqqf js itx fñtx, t mfxyf yfsyt
vzj utw éq qj kzjxj rfsifit tywf htxf; qt hzfq jwf hqfwt vzj its Vznotyj
ajshnit hzruqnwíf nsizgnyfgqjrjsyj, utw st htsywfajsnw d kfqyfw f qfx qjdjx
ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, d utiwíf xjw vzj js jq ynjrut ij xz wjhqzxnós xj qj
tqanifxjs xzx afsnifijx, t xj injxj qzlfw ij gzxhfw f xz qthzwf fqlús
htsajsnjsyj wjrjint.

Fhjuyóqt Hfwwfxht, d tkwjhnóxjqj utw jxhzijwt Ytré Hjhnfq, htrufiwj d
ajhnst ij Xfshmt Ufsef, mtrgwj fqjlwj d ij qzhntx hfxhtx. Fwróxj Xfsxós
htrt vzjif wjkjwnit d Ytré Hjhnfq fhtrtió xtgwj xzx sfyzwfqjx sfwnhjx qfx
kfqxfx d ij ráxhfwf df inhmfx, utwvzj st kzjxj htsthnit ij xz htrufiwj
hzfsit xj anjxjs; d fxí, xnlznjwts jq rnxrt anfoj vzj qqjafgf its Vznotyj,
d qqjlfwts hfxn f mfqqfwxj js qf fajsyzwf ijq hfwwt ij qf Rzjwyj. D,
knsfqrjsyj, injwts hts jqqtx js jq gtxvzj, itsij qjx xzhjinó ytit qt vzj jq
uwzijsyj mf qjíit; d xn st kzjwf utw qtx ujsxfrnjsytx jcywftwinsfwntx ij
its Vznotyj, vzj xj int f jsyjsijw vzj jq gfhmnqqjw st jwf jq gfhmnqqjw, jq
xjñtw gfhmnqqjw vzjifwf nrutxngnqnyfit ufwf xnjruwj ij lwfizfwxj ij
qnhjshnfit, utw st mfgjw mfqqfit snitx itsij ujsxó mfqqfw uáofwtx.

Ytré Hjhnfq, vzj ant hzás rfq mfgíf qtlwfit xzx ijxjtx d jq rfq ufwfijwt
vzj mfgíf yjsnit xz hfrnst, inot fq gfhmnqqjw:

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, vzj yjsjrtx szjxywt rjwjhnit: hts
kfhnqnifi xj unjsxf d xj fhtrjyj zsf jruwjxf, ujwt hts inknhzqyfi qfx ráx
ajhjx xj xfqj ijqqf. Its Vznotyj qtht, stxtywtx hzjwitx: éq xj af xfst d
wnjsit, azjxf rjwhji vzjif rtqnit d ywnxyj. Xjufrtx, uzjx, fmtwf, hzáq jx
ráx qtht: ¿jq vzj qt jx utw st utijw rjstx, t jq vzj qt jx utw xz atqzsyfi?

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfsxós:

-Qf inkjwjshnf vzj mfd jsywj jxtx itx qthtx jx vzj jq vzj qt jx utw kzjwef
qt xjwá xnjruwj, d jq vzj qt jx ij lwfit qt ijofwá ij xjw hzfsit vznxnjwj.

-Uzjx fxí jx -inot Ytré Hjhnfq-, dt kzn utw rn atqzsyfi qtht hzfsit vznxj
mfhjwrj jxhzijwt ij azjxywf rjwhji, d utw qf rnxrf vznjwt ijofw ij xjwqt d
atqajwrj f rn hfxf.

-Jxt tx hzruqj -wjxutsinó Xfsxós-, utwvzj ujsxfw vzj dt mj ij atqajw f qf
ríf, mfxyf mfgjw rtqnit f ufqtx f its Vznotyj, jx ujsxfw js qt jxhzxfit; d
st rj qqjafwá fmtwf f gzxhfwqj jq ijxjt ij vzj htgwj xz oznhnt, xnst jq ij
qf ajslfsef; vzj jq itqtw lwfsij ij rnx htxynqqfx st rj ijof mfhjw ráx
unfitxtx inxhzwxtx.

Js jxyt kzjwts wfetsfsit qtx itx, mfxyf vzj qqjlfwts f zs uzjgqt itsij kzj
ajsyzwf mfqqfw zs fqljgwnxyf, hts vznjs xj hzwó jq Xfsxós ijxlwfhnfit. Ytré
Hjhnfq xj atqanó d qj ijoó, d éq vzjió nrflnsfsit xz ajslfsef; d qf
mnxytwnf azjqaj f mfgqfw iéq f xz ynjrut, utw st ijofw ij wjlthnofwxj fmtwf
hts its Vznotyj.





Hfuíyzqt CAN. Ij qt vzj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj hts zs inxhwjyt hfgfqqjwt ij
qf Rfshmf


Hts qf fqjlwíf, htsyjsyt d zkfsnifi vzj xj mf inhmt, xjlzíf its Vznotyj xz
otwsfif, nrflnsásitxj utw qf ufxfif anytwnf xjw jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj ráx
afqnjsyj vzj yjsíf js fvzjqqf jifi jq rzsit; ifgf utw fhfgfifx d f kjqnhj
kns htsizhnifx hzfsyfx fajsyzwfx uzinjxjs xzhjijwqj ij fqqí fijqfsyj; yjsíf
js utht f qtx jshfsytx d f qtx jshfsyfitwjx; st xj fhtwifgf ij qtx
nszrjwfgqjx ufqtx vzj js jq inxhzwxt ij xzx hfgfqqjwífx qj mfgífs ifit, sn
ij qf ujiwfif vzj qj ijwwngó qf rnyfi ij qtx injsyjx, sn ijq
ijxflwfijhnrnjsyt ij qtx lfqjtyjx, sn ijq fywjanrnjsyt d qqzanf ij jxyfhfx
ij qtx dfslüjxjx. Knsfqrjsyj, ijhíf jsywj xí vzj xn éq mfqqfwf fwyj, rtit t
rfsjwf htrt ijxjshfsyfw f xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, st nsaninfwf f qf rfdtw
ajsyzwf vzj fqhfseó t uzit fqhfsefw jq ráx ajsyzwtxt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj ij
qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx. Js jxyfx nrflnsfhntsjx ngf ytit thzufit, hzfsit Xfshmt
qj inot:

-¿St jx gzjst, xjñtw, vzj fzs ytifaíf ywfnlt jsywj qtx totx qfx ijxfktwfifx
sfwnhjx, d rfdtwjx ij rfwhf, ij rn htrufiwj Ytré Hjhnfq?

-D ¿hwjjx yú, Xfshmt, utw ajsyzwf, vzj jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Jxujotx jwf jq
gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht; d xz jxhzijwt, Ytré Hjhnfq, yz htrufiwj?

-St xé vzé rj inlf f jxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; xóqt xé vzj qfx xjñfx vzj rj
int ij rn hfxf, rzojw d mnotx st rj qfx utiwíf ifw tywt vzj éq rjxrt; d qf
hfwf, vznyfifx qfx sfwnhjx, jwf qf rnxrf ij Ytré Hjhnfq, htrt dt xj qf mj
anxyt rzhmfx ajhjx js rn uzjgqt d ufwji js rjint ij rn rnxrf hfxf; d jq
ytst ij qf mfgqf jwf ytit zst.

-Jxyjrtx f wfeós, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. Ajs fhá: ¿js vzé
htsxnijwfhnós uzjij hfgjw vzj jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht ansnjxj htrt
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, fwrfit ij fwrfx tkjsxnafx d ijkjsxnafx, f ujqjfw
htsrnlt? ¿Mj xnit dt xz jsjrnlt utw ajsyzwf? ¿Mjqj ifit dt ofráx thfxnós
ufwf yjsjwrj tojwnef? ¿Xtd dt xz wnafq, t mfhj éq uwtkjxnós ij qfx fwrfx,
ufwf yjsjw nsaninf f qf kfrf vzj dt utw jqqfx mj lfsfit?

-Uzjx, ¿vzé inwjrtx, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, f jxyt ij ufwjhjwxj yfsyt
fvzjq hfgfqqjwt, xjf jq vzj xj kzjwj, fq gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht, d xz jxhzijwt
f Ytré Hjhnfq, rn htrufiwj? D xn jqqt jx jshfsyfrjsyt, htrt azjxywf rjwhji
mf inhmt, ¿st mfgíf js jq rzsit tywtx itx f vznjs xj ufwjhnjwfs?

-Ytit jx fwynknhnt d ywfef -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- ij qtx rfqnlstx rfltx
vzj rj ujwxnlzjs, qtx hzfqjx, fsyjanjsit vzj dt mfgíf ij vzjifw ajshjitw js
qf htsynjsif, xj uwjansnjwts ij vzj jq hfgfqqjwt ajshnit rtxywfxj jq wtxywt
ij rn frnlt jq gfhmnqqjw, utwvzj qf frnxyfi vzj qj yjslt xj uzxnjxj jsywj
qtx knqtx ij rn jxufif d jq wnltw ij rn gwfet, d yjruqfxj qf ozxyf nwf ij
rn htwfeós, d ijxyf rfsjwf vzjifxj hts anif jq vzj hts jrgjqjhtx d kfqxífx
uwthzwfgf vznyfwrj qf ríf. Ufwf uwzjgf ij qt hzfq df xfgjx, ¡tm Xfshmt!,
utw jcujwnjshnf vzj st yj ijofwá rjsynw sn jslfñfw, hzás káhnq xjf f qtx
jshfsyfitwjx rzifw zstx wtxywtx js tywtx, mfhnjsit ij qt mjwrtxt kjt d ij
qt kjt mjwrtxt, uzjx st mf itx iífx vzj anxyj utw yzx rnxrtx totx qf
mjwrtxzwf d lfqqfwiíf ij qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf js ytif xz jsyjwjef d sfyzwfq
htsktwrnifi, d dt qf an js qf kjfqifi d gfojef ij zsf efknf qfgwfitwf, hts
hfyfwfyfx js qtx totx d hts rfq tqtw js qf gthf; d ráx, vzj jq ujwajwxt
jshfsyfitw vzj xj fywjanó f mfhjw zsf ywfsxktwrfhnós yfs rfqf st jx rzhmt
vzj mfdf mjhmt qf ij Xfsxós Hfwwfxht d qf ij yz htrufiwj, utw vznyfwrj qf
lqtwnf ijq ajshnrnjsyt ij qfx rfstx. Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, rj htsxzjqt;
utwvzj, js kns, js hzfqvznjwf knlzwf vzj mfdf xnit, mj vzjifit ajshjitw ij
rn jsjrnlt.

-Intx xfgj qf ajwifi ij ytit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

D htrt éq xfgíf vzj qf ywfsxktwrfhnós ij Izqhnsjf mfgíf xnit ywfef d
jrgjqjht xzdt, st qj xfynxkfhífs qfx vznrjwfx ij xz frt; ujwt st qj vznxt
wjuqnhfw, utw st ijhnw fqlzsf ufqfgwf vzj ijxhzgwnjxj xz jrgzxyj.

Js jxyfx wfetsjx jxyfgfs hzfsit qtx fqhfseó zs mtrgwj vzj ijywáx ijqqtx utw
jq rnxrt hfrnst ajsíf xtgwj zsf rzd mjwrtxf djlzf ytwinqqf, ajxynit zs
lfgás ij ufñt knst ajwij, onwtsfit ij yjwhntujqt qjtsfit, hts zsf rtsyjwf
ijq rnxrt yjwhntujqt; jq fijwjet ij qf djlzf jwf ij hfrut d ij qf onsjyf,
fxnrnxrt ij rtwfit d ajwij. Ywfíf zs fqkfsoj rtwnxht ujsinjsyj ij zs fshmt
yfmfqí ij ajwij d twt, d qtx gtwhjlzíjx jwfs ij qf qfgtw ijq yfmfqí; qfx
jxuzjqfx st jwfs itwfifx, xnst ififx hts zs gfwsne ajwij, yfs yjwxfx d
gwzñnifx vzj, utw mfhjw qfgtw hts ytit jq ajxynit, ufwjhífs rjotw vzj xn
kzjwf ij twt uzwt. Hzfsit qqjló f jqqtx, jq hfrnsfsyj qtx xfqzió
htwyéxrjsyj, d, unhfsit f qf djlzf, xj ufxfgf ij qfwlt; ujwt its Vznotyj qj
inot:

-Xjñtw lfqás, xn jx vzj azjxywf rjwhji qqjaf jq hfrnst vzj stxtywtx d st
nrutwyf jq ifwxj uwnjxf, rjwhji wjhngnwíf js vzj stx kzéxjrtx ozsytx.

-Js ajwifi -wjxutsinó jq ij qf djlzf- vzj st rj ufxfwf yfs ij qfwlt, xn st
kzjwf utw yjrtw vzj hts qf htrufñíf ij rn djlzf st xj fqgtwtyfwf jxj
hfgfqqt.

-Gnjs uzjij, xjñtw -wjxutsinó f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt-, gnjs uzjij yjsjw qfx
wnjsifx f xz djlzf, utwvzj szjxywt hfgfqqt jx jq ráx mtsjxyt d gnjs rnwfit
ijq rzsit: ofráx js xjrjofsyjx thfxntsjx mf mjhmt anqjef fqlzsf, d zsf aje
vzj xj ijxrfsió f mfhjwqf qf qfxyfrtx rn xjñtw d dt hts qfx xjyjsfx. Inlt
tywf aje vzj uzjij azjxywf rjwhji ijyjsjwxj, xn vznxnjwj; vzj, fzsvzj xj qf
ijs jsywj itx uqfytx, f gzjs xjlzwt vzj jq hfgfqqt st qf fwwtxywj.

Ijyzat qf wnjsif jq hfrnsfsyj, firnwásitxj ij qf futxyzwf d wtxywt ij its
Vznotyj, jq hzfq ngf xns hjqfif, vzj qf qqjafgf Xfshmt htrt rfqjyf js jq
fweós ijqfsyjwt ij qf fqgfwif ijq wzhnt; d xn rzhmt rnwfgf jq ij qt ajwij f
its Vznotyj, rzhmt ráx rnwfgf its Vznotyj fq ij qt ajwij, ufwjhnésitqj
mtrgwj ij hmfuf. Qf jifi rtxywfgf xjw ij hnshzjsyf fñtx; qfx hfsfx, uthfx,
d jq wtxywt, flznqjñt; qf anxyf, jsywj fqjlwj d lwfaj; knsfqrjsyj, js jq
ywfoj d futxyzwf ifgf f jsyjsijw xjw mtrgwj ij gzjsfx uwjsifx.

Qt vzj ozeló ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf jq ij qt ajwij kzj vzj xjrjofsyj
rfsjwf sn ufwjhjw ij mtrgwj st qj mfgíf anxyt ofráx: firnwóqj qf qtslzwf ij
xz hfgfqqt, qf lwfsijef ij xz hzjwut, qf kqfvzjef d frfwnqqje ij xz wtxywt,
xzx fwrfx, xz fijrás d htrutxyzwf: knlzwf d wjywfyt st anxyt utw qzjsltx
ynjrutx fywáx js fvzjqqf ynjwwf. Styó gnjs its Vznotyj qf fyjshnós hts vzj
jq hfrnsfsyj qj rnwfgf, d qjdóqj js qf xzxujsxnós xz ijxjt; d, htrt jwf yfs
htwyéx d yfs frnlt ij ifw lzxyt f ytitx, fsyjx vzj qj uwjlzsyfxj sfif, qj
xfqnó fq hfrnst, inhnésitqj:

-Jxyf knlzwf vzj azjxf rjwhji js rí mf anxyt, utw xjw yfs szjaf d yfs kzjwf
ij qfx vzj htrúsrjsyj xj zxfs, st rj rfwfanqqfwíf dt ij vzj qj mzgnjxj
rfwfanqqfit; ujwt ijofwá azjxf rjwhji ij jxyfwqt hzfsit qj inlf, htrt qj
inlt, vzj xtd hfgfqqjwt

ijxytx vzj inhjs qfx ljsyjx

vzj f xzx fajsyzwfx afs.

Xfqí ij rn ufywnf, jrujñé rn mfhnjsif, ijoé rn wjlfqt, d jsywjlzérj js qtx
gwfetx ij qf Ktwyzsf, vzj rj qqjafxjs itsij ráx kzjxj xjwanif. Vznxj
wjxzhnyfw qf df rzjwyf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, d mf rzhmtx iífx vzj, ywtujefsit
fvzí, hfdjsit fqqí, ijxujñásitrj fhá d qjafsyásitrj fhzqqá, mj hzruqnit
lwfs ufwyj ij rn ijxjt, xthtwwnjsit anzifx, frufwfsit itshjqqfx d
kfatwjhnjsit hfxfifx, mzéwkfstx d uzunqtx, uwtunt d sfyzwfq tknhnt ij
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx; d fxí, utw rnx afqjwtxfx, rzhmfx d hwnxynfsfx mfefñfx
mj rjwjhnit fsifw df js jxyfruf js hfxn ytifx t qfx ráx sfhntsjx ijq rzsit.
Ywjnsyf rnq atqúrjsjx xj mfs nruwjxt ij rn mnxytwnf, d qqjaf hfrnst ij
nruwnrnwxj ywjnsyf rnq ajhjx ij rnqqfwjx, xn jq hnjqt st qt wjrjinf.
Knsfqrjsyj, utw jshjwwfwqt ytit js gwjajx ufqfgwfx, t js zsf xtqf, inlt vzj
dt xtd its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, utw tywt strgwj qqfrfit jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf
Ywnxyj Knlzwf; d, uzjxyt vzj qfx uwtunfx fqfgfsefx jsanqjhjs, jxrj ktwetxt
ijhnw dt yfq aje qfx rífx, d jxyt xj jsynjsij hzfsit st xj mfqqf uwjxjsyj
vznjs qfx inlf; fxí vzj, xjñtw ljsynqmtrgwj, sn jxyj hfgfqqt, jxyf qfsef,
sn jxyj jxhzit, sn jxhzijwt, sn ytifx ozsyfx jxyfx fwrfx, sn qf frfwnqqje
ij rn wtxywt, sn rn fyjszfif kqfvzjef, tx utiwá firnwfw ij fvzí fijqfsyj,
mfgnjsit df xfgnit vznés xtd d qf uwtkjxnós vzj mflt.

Hfqqó js inhnjsit jxyt its Vznotyj, d jq ij qt ajwij, xjlús xj yfwifgf js
wjxutsijwqj, ufwjhíf vzj st fhjwyfgf f mfhjwqt; ujwt ij fqqí f gzjs jxufhnt
qj inot:

-Fhjwyfxyjx, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, f htsthjw utw rn xzxujsxnós rn ijxjt; ujwt st
mfgénx fhjwyfit f vznyfwrj qf rfwfanqqf vzj js rí hfzxf jq mfgjwtx anxyt;
vzj, uzjxyt vzj, htrt atx, xjñtw, ijhíx, vzj jq xfgjw df vznés xtnx rj qt
utiwíf vznyfw, st mf xnit fxí; fsyjx, fltwf vzj qt xé, vzjit ráx xzxujsxt d
rfwfanqqfit. ¿Hórt d jx utxngqj vzj mfd mtd hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx js jq
rzsit, d vzj mfd mnxytwnfx nruwjxfx ij ajwifijwfx hfgfqqjwífx? St rj uzjit
ujwxzfinw vzj mfdf mtd js qf ynjwwf vznjs kfatwjehf anzifx, frufwj
itshjqqfx, sn mtswj hfxfifx, sn xthtwwf mzéwkfstx, d st qt hwjdjwf xn js
azjxf rjwhji st qt mzgnjwf anxyt hts rnx totx. ¡Gjsinyt xjf jq hnjqt!, vzj
hts jxf mnxytwnf, vzj azjxf rjwhji inhj vzj jxyá nruwjxf, ij xzx fqyfx d
ajwifijwfx hfgfqqjwífx, xj mfgwás uzjxyt js tqanit qfx nsszrjwfgqjx ij qtx
knslnitx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ij vzj jxyfgf qqjst jq rzsit, yfs js ifñt ij
qfx gzjsfx htxyzrgwjx d yfs js ujwoznhnt d ijxhwéinyt ij qfx gzjsfx
mnxytwnfx.

-Mfd rzhmt vzj ijhnw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- js wfeós ij xn xts knslnifx, t
st, qfx mnxytwnfx ij qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx.

-Uzjx, ¿mfd vznjs izij -wjxutsinó jq Ajwij- vzj st xts kfqxfx qfx yfqjx
mnxytwnfx?

-Dt qt izit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d vzéijxj jxyt fvzí; vzj xn szjxywf
otwsfif izwf, jxujwt js Intx ij ifw f jsyjsijw f azjxf rjwhji vzj mf mjhmt
rfq js nwxj hts qf htwwnjsyj ij qtx vzj ynjsjs utw hnjwyt vzj st xts
ajwifijwfx.

Ijxyf úqynrf wfeós ij its Vznotyj ytró gfwwzsytx jq hfrnsfsyj ij vzj its
Vznotyj ijgíf ij xjw fqlús rjsyjhfyt, d flzfwifgf vzj hts tywfx qt
htsknwrfxj; ujwt, fsyjx vzj xj inajwynjxjs js tywtx wfetsfrnjsytx, its
Vznotyj qj wtló qj inojxj vznés jwf, uzjx éq qj mfgíf ifit ufwyj ij xz
htsinhnós d ij xz anif. F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq ijq Ajwij Lfgás:

-Dt, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, xtd zs mnifqlt sfyzwfq ij zs
qzlfw itsij nwjrtx f htrjw mtd, xn Intx kzjwj xjwanit. Xtd ráx vzj
rjinfsfrjsyj wnht d jx rn strgwj its Injlt ij Rnwfsif; ufxt qf anif hts rn
rzojw, d hts rnx mnotx, d hts rnx frnltx; rnx jojwhnhntx xts jq ij qf hfef
d ujxhf, ujwt st rfsyjslt sn mfqhós sn lfqltx, xnst fqlús ujwinlós rfsxt, t
fqlús mzwós fywjanit. Yjslt mfxyf xjnx ithjsfx ij qngwtx, hzáqjx ij wtrfshj
d hzáqjx ij qfyís, ij mnxytwnf fqlzstx d ij ijathnós tywtx; qtx ij
hfgfqqjwífx fús st mfs jsywfit utw qtx zrgwfqjx ij rnx uzjwyfx. Mtojt ráx
qtx vzj xts uwtkfstx vzj qtx ijatytx, htrt xjfs ij mtsjxyt jsywjyjsnrnjsyt,
vzj ijqjnyjs hts jq qjslzfoj d firnwjs d xzxujsifs hts qf nsajshnós, uzjxyt
vzj iéxytx mfd rzd uthtx js Jxufñf. Fqlzsf aje htrt hts rnx ajhnstx d
frnltx, d rzhmfx ajhjx qtx htsanit; xts rnx htsanyjx qnruntx d fxjfitx, d
st sfif jxhfxtx; sn lzxyt ij rzwrzwfw, sn htsxnjsyt vzj ijqfsyj ij rí xj
rzwrzwj; st jxhziwnñt qfx anifx fojsfx, sn xtd qnshj ij qtx mjhmtx ij qtx
tywtx; tnlt rnxf hfif iíf; wjufwyt ij rnx gnjsjx hts qtx utgwjx, xns mfhjw
fqfwij ij qfx gzjsfx tgwfx, utw st ifw jsywfif js rn htwfeós f qf
mnuthwjxíf d afsflqtwnf, jsjrnltx vzj gqfsifrjsyj xj futijwfs ijq htwfeós
ráx wjhfyfit; uwthzwt utsjw js ufe qtx vzj xé vzj jxyás ijxfajsnitx; xtd
ijatyt ij szjxywf Xjñtwf, d htskít xnjruwj js qf rnxjwnhtwinf nsknsnyf ij
Intx szjxywt Xjñtw.

Fyjsyíxnrt jxyzat Xfshmt f qf wjqfhnós ij qf anif d jsywjyjsnrnjsytx ijq
mnifqlt; d, ufwjhnésitqj gzjsf d xfsyf d vzj vznjs qf mfhíf ijgíf ij mfhjw
rnqflwtx, xj fwwtoó ijq wzhnt, d hts lwfs uwnjxf qj kzj f fxnw ijq jxywngt
ijwjhmt, d hts ijatyt htwfeós d hfxn qálwnrfx qj gjxó qtx unjx zsf d rzhmfx
ajhjx. Anxyt qt hzfq utw jq mnifqlt, qj uwjlzsyó:

-¿Vzé mfhénx, mjwrfst? ¿Vzé gjxtx xts éxytx?

-Iéojsrj gjxfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj rj ufwjhj azjxf rjwhji jq uwnrjw
xfsyt f qf onsjyf vzj mj anxyt js ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif.

-St xtd xfsyt -wjxutsinó jq mnifqlt-, xnst lwfs ujhfitw; atx xí, mjwrfst,
vzj ijgénx ij xjw gzjst, htrt azjxywf xnruqnhnifi qt rzjxywf.

Atqanó Xfshmt f htgwfw qf fqgfwif, mfgnjsit xfhfit f uqfef qf wnxf ij qf
uwtkzsif rfqjshtqíf ij xz frt d hfzxfit szjaf firnwfhnós f its Injlt.
Uwjlzsyóqj its Vznotyj vzj hzásytx mnotx yjsíf, d iíotqj vzj zsf ij qfx
htxfx js vzj utsífs jq xzrt gnjs qtx fsynlztx knqóxtktx, vzj hfwjhnjwts ijq
ajwifijwt htsthnrnjsyt ij Intx, kzj js qtx gnjsjx ij qf sfyzwfqjef, js qtx
ij qf ktwyzsf, js yjsjw rzhmtx frnltx d js yjsjw rzhmtx d gzjstx mnotx.

-Dt, xjñtw its Vznotyj -wjxutsinó jq mnifqlt-, yjslt zs mnot, vzj, f st
yjsjwqj, vzneá rj ozelfwf utw ráx inhmtxt ij qt vzj xtd; d st utwvzj éq xjf
rfqt, xnst utwvzj st jx yfs gzjst htrt dt vznxnjwf. Xjwá ij jifi ij inje d
thmt fñtx: qtx xjnx mf jxyfit js Xfqfrfshf, fuwjsinjsit qfx qjslzfx qfynsf
d lwnjlf; d, hzfsit vznxj vzj ufxfxj f jxyzinfw tywfx hnjshnfx, mfqqéqj yfs
jrgjgnit js qf ij qf utjxíf, xn jx vzj xj uzjij qqfrfw hnjshnf, vzj st jx
utxngqj mfhjwqj fwwtxywfw qf ij qfx qjdjx, vzj dt vznxnjwf vzj jxyzinfwf,
sn ij qf wjnsf ij ytifx, qf yjtqtlíf. Vznxnjwf dt vzj kzjwf htwtsf ij xz
qnsfoj, uzjx ananrtx js xnlqt itsij szjxywtx wjdjx uwjrnfs fqyfrjsyj qfx
anwyztxfx d gzjsfx qjywfx; utwvzj qjywfx xns anwyzi xts ujwqfx js jq
rzqfifw. Ytit jq iíf xj qj ufxf js fajwnlzfw xn inot gnjs t rfq Mtrjwt js
yfq ajwxt ij qf Nqífif; xn Rfwhnfq fsizat ijxmtsjxyt, t st, js yfq
junlwfrf; xn xj mfs ij jsyjsijw ij zsf rfsjwf t tywf yfqjx d yfqjx ajwxtx
ij Anwlnqnt. Js kns, ytifx xzx htsajwxfhntsjx xts hts qtx qngwtx ij qtx
wjkjwnitx utjyfx, d hts qtx ij Mtwfhnt, Ujwxnt, Ozajsfq d Yngzqt; vzj ij
qtx rtijwstx wtrfshnxyfx st mfhj rzhmf hzjsyf; d, hts ytit jq rfq hfwnñt
vzj rzjxywf yjsjw f qf utjxíf ij wtrfshj, qj ynjsj fltwf ijxafsjhnitx qtx
ujsxfrnjsytx jq mfhjw zsf lqtxf f hzfywt ajwxtx vzj qj mfs jsanfit ij
Xfqfrfshf, d unjsxt vzj xts ij ozxyf qnyjwfwnf.

F ytit qt hzfq wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Qtx mnotx, xjñtw, xts ujifetx ij qfx jsywfñfx ij xzx ufiwjx, d fxí, xj mfs
ij vzjwjw, t gzjstx t rfqtx vzj xjfs, htrt xj vznjwjs qfx fqrfx vzj stx ifs
anif; f qtx ufiwjx ythf jq jshfrnsfwqtx ijxij ujvzjñtx utw qtx ufxtx ij qf
anwyzi, ij qf gzjsf hwnfsef d ij qfx gzjsfx d hwnxynfsfx htxyzrgwjx, ufwf
vzj hzfsit lwfsijx xjfs gáhzqt ij qf ajoje ij xzx ufiwjx d lqtwnf ij xz
utxyjwnifi; d js qt ij ktwefwqjx vzj jxyzinjs jxyf t fvzjqqf hnjshnf st qt
yjslt utw fhjwyfit, fzsvzj jq ujwxzfinwqjx st xjwá ifñtxt; d hzfsit st xj
mf ij jxyzinfw ufwf ufsj qzhwfsit, xnjsit yfs ajsyzwtxt jq jxyzinfsyj vzj
qj int jq hnjqt ufiwjx vzj xj qt ijojs, xjwíf dt ij ufwjhjw vzj qj ijojs
xjlznw fvzjqqf hnjshnf f vzj ráx qj anjwjs nshqnsfit; d, fzsvzj qf ij qf
utjxíf jx rjstx úynq vzj ijqjnyfgqj, st jx ij fvzjqqfx vzj xzjqjs ijxmtswfw
f vznjs qfx utxjj. Qf utjxíf, xjñtw mnifqlt, f rn ufwjhjw, jx htrt zsf
itshjqqf ynjwsf d ij uthf jifi, d js ytit jxywjrt mjwrtxf, f vznjs ynjsjs
hznifit ij jswnvzjhjw, uzqnw d fitwsfw tywfx rzhmfx itshjqqfx, vzj xts
ytifx qfx tywfx hnjshnfx, d jqqf xj mf ij xjwanw ij ytifx, d ytifx xj mfs
ij fzytwnefw hts jqqf; ujwt jxyf yfq itshjqqf st vznjwj xjw rfstxjfif, sn
ywfíif utw qfx hfqqjx, sn uzgqnhfif utw qfx jxvznsfx ij qfx uqfefx sn utw
qtx wnshtsjx ij qtx ufqfhntx. Jqqf jx mjhmf ij zsf fqvznrnf ij yfq anwyzi,
vzj vznjs qf xfgj ywfyfw qf atqajwá js twt uzwíxnrt ij nsjxynrfgqj uwjhnt;
mfqf ij yjsjw, jq vzj qf yzanjwj, f wfdf, st ijoásitqf htwwjw js ytwujx
xáynwfx sn js ijxfqrfitx xtsjytx; st mf ij xjw ajsingqj js snslzsf rfsjwf,
xn df st kzjwj js utjrfx mjwtnhtx, js qfrjsyfgqjx ywfljinfx, t js htrjinfx
fqjlwjx d fwynknhntxfx; st xj mf ij ijofw ywfyfw ij qtx ywzmfsjx, sn ijq
nlstwfsyj azqlt, nshfufe ij htsthjw sn jxynrfw qtx yjxtwtx vzj js jqqf xj
jshnjwwfs. D st ujsxénx, xjñtw, vzj dt qqfrt fvzí azqlt xtqfrjsyj f qf
ljsyj uqjgjdf d mzrnqij; vzj ytit fvzjq vzj st xfgj, fzsvzj xjf xjñtw d
uwíshnuj, uzjij d ijgj jsywfw js súrjwt ij azqlt. D fxí, jq vzj hts qtx
wjvznxnytx vzj mj inhmt ywfyfwj d yzanjwj f qf utjxíf, xjwá kfrtxt d
jxynrfit xz strgwj js ytifx qfx sfhntsjx utqíynhfx ijq rzsit. D f qt vzj
ijhíx, xjñtw, vzj azjxywt mnot st jxynrf rzhmt qf utjxíf ij wtrfshj, itdrj
f jsyjsijw vzj st fsif rzd fhjwyfit js jqqt, d qf wfeós jx éxyf: jq lwfsij
Mtrjwt st jxhwngnó js qfyís, utwvzj jwf lwnjlt, sn Anwlnqnt st jxhwngnó js
lwnjlt, utwvzj jwf qfynst. Js wjxtqzhnós, ytitx qtx utjyfx fsynlztx
jxhwngnjwts js qf qjslzf vzj rfrfwts js qf qjhmj, d st kzjwts f gzxhfw qfx
jxywfsojwfx ufwf ijhqfwfw qf fqyjef ij xzx htshjuytx. D, xnjsit jxyt fxí,
wfeós xjwíf xj jxyjsinjxj jxyf htxyzrgwj utw ytifx qfx sfhntsjx, d vzj st
xj ijxjxynrfxj jq utjyf fqjrás utwvzj jxhwngj js xz qjslzf, sn jq
hfxyjqqfst, sn fzs jq anehfíst, vzj jxhwngj js qf xzdf. Ujwt azjxywt mnot,
f qt vzj dt, xjñtw, nrflnst, st ijgj ij jxyfw rfq hts qf utjxíf ij wtrfshj,
xnst hts qtx utjyfx vzj xts rjwtx wtrfshnxyfx, xns xfgjw tywfx qjslzfx sn
tywfx hnjshnfx vzj fitwsjs d ijxunjwyjs d fdzijs f xz sfyzwfq nruzqxt; d
fzs js jxyt uzjij mfgjw djwwt; utwvzj, xjlús jx tunsnós ajwifijwf, jq utjyf
sfhj: vznjwjs ijhnw vzj ijq anjsywj ij xz rfiwj jq utjyf sfyzwfq xfqj
utjyf; d, hts fvzjqqf nshqnsfhnós vzj qj int jq hnjqt, xns ráx jxyzint sn
fwynknhnt, htrutsj htxfx, vzj mfhj ajwifijwt fq vzj inot: jxy Ijzx ns
stgnx..., jyhéyjwf. Yfrgnés inlt vzj jq sfyzwfq utjyf vzj xj fdzifwj ijq
fwyj xjwá rzhmt rjotw d xj fajsyfofwá fq utjyf vzj xóqt utw xfgjw jq fwyj
vznxnjwj xjwqt; qf wfeós jx utwvzj jq fwyj st xj fajsyfof f qf sfyzwfqjef,
xnst ujwknhnósfqf; fxí vzj, rjehqfifx qf sfyzwfqjef d jq fwyj, d jq fwyj
hts qf sfyzwfqjef, xfhfwás zs ujwkjyíxnrt utjyf. Xjf, uzjx, qf htshqzxnós
ij rn uqáynhf, xjñtw mnifqlt, vzj azjxf rjwhji ijoj hfrnsfw f xz mnot utw
itsij xz jxywjqqf qj qqfrf; vzj, xnjsit éq yfs gzjs jxyzinfsyj htrt ijgj ij
xjw, d mfgnjsit df xzgnit kjqnhjrjsyj jq uwnrjw jxhfqós ij qfx jxjshnfx,
vzj jx jq ij qfx qjslzfx, hts jqqfx utw xí rjxrt xzgnwá f qf hzrgwj ij qfx
qjywfx mzrfsfx, qfx hzfqjx yfs gnjs ufwjhjs js zs hfgfqqjwt ij hfuf d
jxufif, d fxí qj fitwsfs, mtswfs d jslwfsijhjs, htrt qfx rnywfx f qtx
tgnxutx, t htrt qfx lfwsfhmfx f qtx ujwnytx ozwnxhtsxzqytx. Wnñf azjxf
rjwhji f xz mnot xn mnhnjwj xáynwfx vzj ujwozinvzjs qfx mtswfx fojsfx, d
hfxyílzjqj, d wórufxjqfx, ujwt xn mnhnjwj xjwrtsjx fq rtit ij Mtwfhnt,
itsij wjuwjmjsif qtx anhntx js ljsjwfq, htrt yfs jqjlfsyjrjsyj éq qt mnet,
fqágjqj: utwvzj qíhnyt jx fq utjyf jxhwngnw htsywf qf nsaninf, d ijhnw js
xzx ajwxtx rfq ij qtx nsanintxtx, d fxí ij qtx tywtx anhntx, hts vzj st
xjñfqj ujwxtsf fqlzsf; ujwt mfd utjyfx vzj, f ywzjht ij ijhnw zsf rfqnhnf,
xj utsiwás f ujqnlwt vzj qtx ijxynjwwjs f qfx nxqfx ij Utsyt. Xn jq utjyf
kzjwj hfxyt js xzx htxyzrgwjx, qt xjwá yfrgnés js xzx ajwxtx; qf uqzrf jx
qjslzf ijq fqrf: hzfqjx kzjwjs qtx htshjuytx vzj js jqqf xj jsljsiwfwjs,
yfqjx xjwás xzx jxhwnytx; d hzfsit qtx wjdjx d uwíshnujx ajjs qf rnqflwtxf
hnjshnf ij qf utjxíf js xzojytx uwzijsyjx, anwyztxtx d lwfajx, qtx mtswfs,
qtx jxynrfs d qtx jswnvzjhjs, d fzs qtx htwtsfs hts qfx mtofx ijq áwgtq f
vznjs st tkjsij jq wfdt, htrt js xjñfq vzj st mfs ij xjw tkjsinitx ij sfinj
qtx vzj hts yfqjx htwtsfx ajjs mtswfitx d fitwsfifx xzx xnjsjx.

Firnwfit vzjió jq ijq Ajwij Lfgás ijq wfetsfrnjsyt ij its Vznotyj, d yfsyt,
vzj kzj ujwinjsit ij qf tunsnós vzj hts éq yjsíf, ij xjw rjsyjhfyt. Ujwt, f
qf rnyfi ijxyf uqáynhf, Xfshmt, utw st xjw rzd ij xz lzxyt, xj mfgíf
ijxanfit ijq hfrnst f ujinw zs utht ij qjhmj f zstx ufxytwjx vzj fqqí ozsyt
jxyfgfs twijñfsit zsfx tajofx; d, js jxyt, df atqaíf f wjstafw qf uqáynhf
jq mnifqlt, xfynxkjhmt js jxywjrt ij qf inxhwjhnós d gzjs inxhzwxt ij its
Vznotyj, hzfsit, fqefsit its Vznotyj qf hfgjef, ant vzj utw jq hfrnst utw
itsij jqqtx ngfs ajsíf zs hfwwt qqjst ij gfsijwfx wjfqjx; d, hwjdjsit vzj
ijgíf ij xjw fqlzsf szjaf fajsyzwf, f lwfsijx athjx qqfró f Xfshmt vzj
ansnjxj f ifwqj qf hjqfif. Jq hzfq Xfshmt, tdésitxj qqfrfw, ijoó f qtx
ufxytwjx, d f ytif uwnjxf unhó fq wzhnt, d qqjló itsij xz frt jxyfgf, f
vznjs xzhjinó zsf jxufsytxf d ijxfynsfif fajsyzwf.





Hfuíyzqt CANN. Ij itsij xj ijhqfwó jq úqynrt uzsyt d jxywjrt fitsij qqjló d
uzit qqjlfw jq nsfzinyt ásnrt ij its Vznotyj, hts qf kjqnhjrjsyj fhfgfif
fajsyzwf ij qtx qjtsjx


Hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf vzj hzfsit its Vznotyj ifgf athjx f Xfshmt vzj qj
ywzojxj jq djqrt, jxyfgf éq htruwfsit zstx wjvzjxtsjx vzj qtx ufxytwjx qj
ajsiífs; d, fhtxfit ij qf rzhmf uwnjxf ij xz frt, st xzut vzé mfhjw ijqqtx,
sn js vzé ywfjwqtx, d, utw st ujwijwqtx, vzj df qtx yjsíf uflfitx, fhtwió
ij jhmfwqtx js qf hjqfif ij xz xjñtw, d hts jxyj gzjs wjhfit atqanó f ajw
qt vzj qj vzjwíf; jq hzfq, js qqjlfsit, qj inot:

-Ifrj, frnlt, jxf hjqfif; vzj dt xé utht ij fajsyzwfx, t qt vzj fqqí
ijxhzgwt jx fqlzsf vzj rj mf ij sjhjxnyfw, d rj sjhjxnyf, f ytrfw rnx
fwrfx.

Jq ijq Ajwij Lfgás, vzj jxyt tdó, yjsinó qf anxyf utw ytifx ufwyjx, d st
ijxhzgwnó tywf htxf vzj zs hfwwt vzj mfhnf jqqtx ajsíf, hts itx t ywjx
gfsijwfx ujvzjñfx, vzj qj injwts f jsyjsijw vzj jq yfq hfwwt ijgíf ij ywfjw
rtsjif ij Xz Rfojxyfi, d fxí xj qt inot f its Vznotyj; ujwt éq st qj int
hwéinyt, xnjruwj hwjdjsit d ujsxfsit vzj ytit qt vzj qj xzhjinjxj mfgífs ij
xjw fajsyzwfx d ráx fajsyzwfx, d fxí, wjxutsinó fq mnifqlt:

-Mtrgwj fujwhjgnit, rjint htrgfynit: st xj unjwij sfif js vzj dt rj
fujwhngf, vzj xé utw jcujwnjshnf vzj yjslt jsjrnltx anxngqjx j nsanxngqjx,
d st xé hzásit, sn fiósij, sn js vzé ynjrut, sn js vzé knlzwfx rj mfs ij
fhtrjyjw.

D, atqanésitxj f Xfshmt, qj uninó qf hjqfif; jq hzfq, htrt st yzat qzlfw ij
xfhfw qtx wjvzjxtsjx, qj kzj ktwetxt iáwxjqf htrt jxyfgf. Ytróqf its
Vznotyj, d, xns vzj jhmfxj ij ajw qt vzj ijsywt ajsíf, hts ytif uwnjxf xj
qf jshfoó js qf hfgjef; d, htrt qtx wjvzjxtsjx xj fuwjyfwts d jcuwnrnjwts,
htrjseó f htwwjw jq xzjwt utw ytit jq wtxywt d gfwgfx ij its Vznotyj, ij qt
vzj wjhngnó yfq xzxyt, vzj inot f Xfshmt:

-¿Vzé xjwá jxyt, Xfshmt, vzj ufwjhj vzj xj rj fgqfsifs qtx hfxhtx, t xj rj
ijwwnyjs qtx xjxtx, t vzj xzit ij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef? D xn jx vzj xzit,
js ajwifi vzj st jx ij rnjit; xns izif hwjt vzj jx yjwwngqj qf fajsyzwf vzj
fltwf vznjwj xzhjijwrj. Ifrj, xn ynjsjx, hts vzj rj qnrunj, vzj jq htuntxt
xzitw rj hnjlf qtx totx.

Hfqqó Xfshmt d intqj zs ufñt, d int hts éq lwfhnfx f Intx ij vzj xz xjñtw
st mzgnjxj hfíit js jq hfxt. Qnrunóxj its Vznotyj d vznyóxj qf hjqfif utw
ajw vzé htxf jwf qf vzj, f xz ufwjhjw, qj jskwnfgf qf hfgjef, d, anjsit
fvzjqqfx lfhmfx gqfshfx ijsywt ij qf hjqfif, qfx qqjló f qfx sfwnhjx, d js
tqnésitqfx inot:

-Utw anif ij rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj xts wjvzjxtsjx qtx vzj fvzí
rj mfx uzjxyt, ywfnitw, gjwlfsyj d rfq rnwfit jxhzijwt.

F qt vzj, hts lwfs kqjrf d inxnrzqfhnós, wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Xn xts wjvzjxtsjx, iérjqtx azjxf rjwhji, vzj dt rj qtx htrjwé... Ujwt
hórfqtx jq infgqt, vzj ijgnó ij xjw jq vzj fmí qtx uzxt. ¿Dt mfgíf ij yjsjw
fywjanrnjsyt ij jsxzhnfw jq djqrt ij azjxf rjwhji? ¡Mfqqfit qj mfgénx jq
fywjanit! F qf kj, xjñtw, f qt vzj Intx rj if f jsyjsijw, yfrgnés ijgt dt
ij yjsjw jshfsyfitwjx vzj rj ujwxnlzjs htrt f mjhmzwf d rnjrgwt ij azjxf
rjwhji, d mfgwás uzjxyt fmí jxf nsrzsinhnf ufwf rtajw f hóqjwf xz ufhnjshnf
d mfhjw vzj rj rzjqf, htrt xzjqj, qfx htxynqqfx. Uzjx js ajwifi vzj jxyf
aje mfs ifit xfqyt js aflt, vzj dt htskít js jq gzjs inxhzwxt ij rn xjñtw,
vzj mfgwá htsxnijwfit vzj sn dt yjslt wjvzjxtsjx, sn qjhmj, sn tywf htxf
vzj qt afqlf, d vzj xn qf yzanjwf, fsyjx qf uzxnjwf js rn jxyórflt vzj js
qf hjqfif.

-Ytit uzjij xjw -inot its Vznotyj.

D ytit qt rnwfgf jq mnifqlt, d ij ytit xj firnwfgf, jxujhnfqrjsyj hzfsit,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj qnrunfit its Vznotyj hfgjef, wtxywt d gfwgfx d hjqfif,
xj qf jshfoó; d, fknwrásitxj gnjs js qtx jxywngtx, wjvznwnjsit qf jxufif d
fxnjsit qf qfsef, inot:

-Fmtwf, ajslf qt vzj ajsnjwj, vzj fvzí jxytd hts ásnrt ij ytrfwrj hts jq
rjxrt Xfyfsáx js ujwxtsf.

Qqjló js jxyt jq hfwwt ij qfx gfsijwfx, js jq hzfq st ajsíf tywf ljsyj vzj
jq hfwwjyjwt, js qfx rzqfx, d zs mtrgwj xjsyfit js qf ijqfsyjwf. Uúxtxj its
Vznotyj ijqfsyj d inot:

-¿Fiósij afnx, mjwrfstx? ¿Vzé hfwwt jx éxyj, vzé qqjaánx js éq d vzé
gfsijwfx xts fvzéxyfx?

F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq hfwwjyjwt:

-Jq hfwwt jx rít; qt vzj af js éq xts itx gwfatx qjtsjx jsofzqfitx, vzj jq
ljsjwfq ij Twás jsaíf f qf htwyj, uwjxjsyfitx f Xz Rfojxyfi; qfx gfsijwfx
xts ijq wjd szjxywt xjñtw, js xjñfq vzj fvzí af htxf xzdf.

-D ¿xts lwfsijx qtx qjtsjx? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Yfs lwfsijx -wjxutsinó jq mtrgwj vzj ngf f qf uzjwyf ijq hfwwt-, vzj st
mfs ufxfit rfdtwjx, sn yfs lwfsijx, ij Fkwnhf f Jxufñf ofráx; d dt xtd jq
qjtsjwt, d mj ufxfit tywtx, ujwt htrt éxytx, snslzst. Xts mjrgwf d rfhmt;
jq rfhmt af js jxyf ofzqf uwnrjwf, d qf mjrgwf js qf ij fywáx; d fmtwf afs
mfrgwnjsytx utwvzj st mfs htrnit mtd; d fxí, azjxf rjwhji xj ijxaíj, vzj jx
rjsjxyjw qqjlfw uwjxyt itsij qjx ijrtx ij htrjw.

F qt vzj inot its Vznotyj, xtswnésitxj zs utht:

-¿Qjtshnytx f rí? ¿F rí qjtshnytx, d f yfqjx mtwfx? Uzjx, ¡utw Intx vzj mfs
ij ajw jxtx xjñtwjx vzj fhá qtx jsaífs xn xtd dt mtrgwj vzj xj jxufsyf ij
qjtsjx! Fujftx, gzjs mtrgwj, d, uzjx xtnx jq qjtsjwt, fgwni jxfx ofzqfx d
jhmfirj jxfx gjxynfx kzjwf, vzj js rnyfi ijxyf hfrufñf qjx ifwé f htsthjw
vznés jx its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij qtx jshfsyfitwjx
vzj f rí qtx jsaífs.

-¡Yf, yf! -inot f jxyf xfeós jsywj xí jq mnifqlt-, ifit mf xjñfq ij vznés
jx szjxywt gzjs hfgfqqjwt: qtx wjvzjxtsjx, xns izif, qj mfs fgqfsifit qtx
hfxhtx d rfizwfit qtx xjxtx.

Qqjlóxj js jxyt f éq Xfshmt d iíotqj:

-Xjñtw, utw vznjs Intx jx, vzj azjxf rjwhji mflf ij rfsjwf vzj rn xjñtw its
Vznotyj st xj ytrj hts jxytx qjtsjx, vzj xn xj ytrf, fvzí stx mfs ij mfhjw
ujifetx f ytitx.

-Uzjx, ¿yfs qtht jx azjxywt frt -wjxutsinó jq mnifqlt-, vzj yjrénx, d
hwjénx vzj xj mf ij ytrfw hts yfs knjwtx fsnrfqjx?

-St jx qtht -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnst fywjanit.

-Dt mfwé vzj st qt xjf -wjuqnhó jq mnifqlt.

D, qqjlásitxj f its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgf ifsit uwnjxf fq qjtsjwt vzj fgwnjxj
qfx ofzqfx, qj inot:

-Xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx mfs ij fhtrjyjw qfx fajsyzwfx vzj
uwtrjyjs jxujwfsef ij xfqnw gnjs ijqqfx, d st fvzjqqfx vzj ij js ytit qf
vznyfs; utwvzj qf afqjsyíf vzj xj jsywf js qf ozwninhnós ij qf yjrjwnifi,
ráx ynjsj ij qthzwf vzj ij ktwyfqjef. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj jxytx qjtsjx st
anjsjs htsywf azjxf rjwhji, sn qt xzjñfs: afs uwjxjsyfitx f Xz Rfojxyfi, d
st xjwá gnjs ijyjsjwqtx sn nrujinwqjx xz anfoj.

-Aádfxj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw mnifqlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, f jsyjsijw hts
xz ujwinlós rfsxt d hts xz mzwós fywjanit, d ijoj f hfif zst mfhjw xz
tknhnt. Éxyj jx jq rít, d dt xé xn anjsjs f rí, t st, jxytx xjñtwjx qjtsjx.

D, atqanésitxj fq qjtsjwt, qj inot:

-¡Atyt f yfq, its gjqqfht, vzj xn st fgwíx qzjlt qzjlt qfx ofzqfx, vzj hts
jxyf qfsef tx mj ij htxjw hts jq hfwwt!

Jq hfwwjyjwt, vzj ant qf ijyjwrnsfhnós ij fvzjqqf fwrfif kfsyfxíf, qj inot:

-Xjñtw rít, azjxywf rjwhji xjf xjwanit, utw hfwnifi, ijofwrj ijxzshnw qfx
rzqfx d utsjwrj js xfqat hts jqqfx fsyjx vzj xj ijxjsafnsjs qtx qjtsjx,
utwvzj xn rj qfx rfyfs, vzjifwé wjrfyfit ufwf ytif rn anif; vzj st yjslt
tywf mfhnjsif xnst jxyj hfwwt d jxyfx rzqfx.

-¡Tm mtrgwj ij uthf kj! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, fuéfyj d ijxzshj, d mfe qt
vzj vznxnjwjx, vzj uwjxyt ajwáx vzj ywfgfofxyj js afst d vzj uzinjwfx
fmtwwfw ijxyf inqnljshnf.

Fujóxj jq hfwwjyjwt d ijxzshnó f lwfs uwnjxf, d jq qjtsjwt inot f lwfsijx
athjx:

-Xéfsrj yjxynltx hzfsytx fvzí jxyás hórt htsywf rn atqzsyfi d ktwefit fgwt
qfx ofzqfx d xzjqyt qtx qjtsjx, d ij vzj uwtyjxyt f jxyj xjñtw vzj ytit jq
rfq d ifñt vzj jxyfx gjxynfx mnhnjwjs htwwf d afdf utw xz hzjsyf, hts ráx
rnx xfqfwntx d ijwjhmtx. Azjxywfx rjwhjijx, xjñtwjx, xj utslfs js htgwt
fsyjx vzj fgwf, vzj dt xjlzwt jxytd vzj st rj mfs ij mfhjw ifñt.

Tywf aje qj ujwxzfinó jq mnifqlt vzj st mnhnjxj qthzwf xjrjofsyj, vzj jwf
yjsyfw f Intx fhtrjyjw yfq inxufwfyj. F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj vzj éq
xfgíf qt vzj mfhíf. Wjxutsinóqj jq mnifqlt vzj qt rnwfxj gnjs, vzj éq
jsyjsiíf vzj xj jslfñfgf.

-Fmtwf, xjñtw -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, xn azjxf rjwhji st vznjwj xjw tdjsyj
ijxyf vzj f xz ufwjhjw mf ij xjw ywfljinf, unvzj qf ytwinqqf d uóslfxj js
xfqat.

Tíit qt hzfq utw Xfshmt, hts qálwnrfx js qtx totx qj xzuqnhó ijxnxynjxj ij
yfq jruwjxf, js hzdf htrufwfhnós mfgífs xnit ytwyfx d ufs unsyfit qf ij qtx
rtqnstx ij anjsyt d qf yjrjwtxf ij qtx gfyfsjx, d, knsfqrjsyj, ytifx qfx
mfefñfx vzj mfgíf fhtrjynit js ytit jq inxhzwxt ij xz anif.

-Rnwj, xjñtw -ijhíf Xfshmt-, vzj fvzí st mfd jshfsyt sn htxf vzj qt afqlf;
vzj dt mj anxyt utw jsywj qfx ajwofx d wjxvznhntx ij qf ofzqf zsf zñf ij
qjós ajwifijwt, d xfht utw jqqf vzj jq yfq qjós, hzdf ijgj ij xjw qf yfq
zñf, jx rfdtw vzj zsf rtsyfñf.

-Jq rnjit, f qt rjstx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, yj qj mfwá ufwjhjw rfdtw
vzj qf rnyfi ijq rzsit. Wjyíwfyj, Xfshmt, d iéofrj; d xn fvzí rzwnjwj, df
xfgjx szjxywt fsynlzt htshnjwyt: fhzinwáx f Izqhnsjf, d st yj inlt ráx.

F éxyfx fñfinó tywfx wfetsjx, hts vzj vznyó qfx jxujwfsefx ij vzj st mfgíf
ij ijofw ij uwtxjlznw xz ijxafwnfit nsyjsyt. Vznxnjwf jq ijq Ajwij Lfgás
tutséwxjqj, ujwt antxj ijxnlzfq js qfx fwrfx, d st qj ufwjhnó htwizwf
ytrfwxj hts zs qtht, vzj df xj qt mfgíf ufwjhnit ij ytit uzsyt its Vznotyj;
jq hzfq, atqanjsit f ifw uwnjxf fq qjtsjwt d f wjnyjwfw qfx frjsfefx, int
thfxnós fq mnifqlt f vzj unhfxj qf djlzf, d Xfshmt fq wzhnt, d jq hfwwjyjwt
f xzx rzqfx, uwthzwfsit ytitx fufwyfwxj ijq hfwwt qt ráx vzj uzinjxjs,
fsyjx vzj qtx qjtsjx xj ijxjrgfsfxyfxjs.

Qqtwfgf Xfshmt qf rzjwyj ij xz xjñtw, vzj fvzjqqf aje xns izif hwjíf vzj
qqjlfgf js qfx lfwwfx ij qtx qjtsjx; rfqijhíf xz ajsyzwf, d qqfrfgf
rjslzfif qf mtwf js vzj qj anst fq ujsxfrnjsyt atqajw f xjwanwqj; ujwt st
utw qqtwfw d qfrjsyfwxj ijofgf ij futwwjfw fq wzhnt ufwf vzj xj fqjofxj ijq
hfwwt. Anjsit, uzjx, jq qjtsjwt vzj df qtx vzj ngfs mzdjsit jxyfgfs gnjs
ijxanfitx, ytwsó f wjvzjwnw d f nsynrfw f its Vznotyj qt vzj df qj mfgíf
wjvzjwnit j nsynrfit, jq hzfq wjxutsinó vzj qt tíf, d vzj st xj hzwfxj ij
ráx nsynrfhntsjx d wjvznwnrnjsytx, vzj ytit xjwíf ij utht kwzyt, d vzj xj
injxj uwnjxf.

Js jq jxufhnt vzj yfwió jq qjtsjwt js fgwnw qf ofzqf uwnrjwf, jxyzat
htsxnijwfsit its Vznotyj xn xjwíf gnjs mfhjw qf gfyfqqf fsyjx f unj vzj f
hfgfqqt; d, js kns, xj ijyjwrnsó ij mfhjwqf f unj, yjrnjsit vzj Wthnsfsyj
xj jxufsyfwíf hts qf anxyf ij qtx qjtsjx. Utw jxyt xfqyó ijq hfgfqqt,
fwwtoó qf qfsef d jrgwfeó jq jxhzit, d, ijxjsafnsfsit qf jxufif, ufxt fsyj
ufxt, hts rfwfanqqtxt ijszjit d htwfeós afqnjsyj, xj kzj f utsjw ijqfsyj
ijq hfwwt, jshtrjsiásitxj f Intx ij ytit htwfeós, d qzjlt f xz xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf.

D jx ij xfgjw vzj, qqjlfsit f jxyj ufxt, jq fzytw ij jxyf ajwifijwf
mnxytwnf jchqfrf d inhj: ''¡Tm kzjwyj d, xtgwj ytit jshfwjhnrnjsyt, fsnrtxt
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jxujot itsij xj uzjijs rnwfw ytitx qtx afqnjsyjx
ijq rzsit, xjlzsit d szjat its Rfszjq ij Qjós, vzj kzj lqtwnf d mtswf ij
qtx jxufñtqjx hfgfqqjwtx! ¿Hts vzé ufqfgwfx htsyfwé jxyf yfs jxufsytxf
mfefñf, t hts vzé wfetsjx qf mfwé hwjígqj f qtx xnlqtx ajsnijwtx, t vzé
fqfgfsefx mfgwá vzj st yj htsajslfs d hzfiwjs, fzsvzj xjfs mnuéwgtqjx xtgwj
ytitx qtx mnuéwgtqjx? Yú f unj, yú xtqt, yú nsywéunit, yú rflsásnrt, hts
xtqf zsf jxufif, d st ij qfx ijq ujwwnqqt htwyfitwfx, hts zs jxhzit st ij
rzd qzhnjsyj d qnrunt fhjwt, jxyáx flzfwifsit d fyjsinjsit qtx itx ráx
knjwtx qjtsjx vzj ofráx hwnfwts qfx fkwnhfsfx xjqafx. Yzx rnxrtx mjhmtx
xjfs qtx vzj yj fqfgjs, afqjwtxt rfshmjlt, vzj dt qtx ijot fvzí js xz uzsyt
utw kfqyfwrj ufqfgwfx hts vzj jshfwjhjwqtx''.

Fvzí hjxó qf wjkjwnif jchqfrfhnós ijq fzytw, d ufxó fijqfsyj, fszifsit jq
mnqt ij qf mnxytwnf, inhnjsit vzj, anxyt jq qjtsjwt df uzjxyt js utxyzwf f
its Vznotyj, d vzj st utiíf ijofw ij xtqyfw fq qjós rfhmt, xt ujsf ij hfjw
js qf ijxlwfhnf ijq nsinlsfit d fywjanit hfgfqqjwt, fgwnó ij ufw js ufw qf
uwnrjwf ofzqf, itsij jxyfgf, htrt xj mf inhmt, jq qjós, jq hzfq ufwjhnó ij
lwfsijef jcywftwinsfwnf d ij jxufsyfgqj d kjf hfyfizwf. Qt uwnrjwt vzj mnet
kzj wjatqajwxj js qf ofzqf, itsij ajsíf jhmfit, d yjsijw qf lfwwf, d
ijxujwjefwxj ytit; fgwnó qzjlt qf gthf d gtxyjeó rzd ijxufhnt, d, hts hfxn
itx ufqrtx ij qjslzf vzj xfhó kzjwf, xj ijxutqatwjó qtx totx d xj qfaó jq
wtxywt; mjhmt jxyt, xfhó qf hfgjef kzjwf ij qf ofzqf d rnwó f ytifx ufwyjx
hts qtx totx mjhmtx gwfxfx, anxyf d fijrás ufwf utsjw jxufsyt f qf rnxrf
yjrjwnifi. Xóqt its Vznotyj qt rnwfgf fyjsyfrjsyj, ijxjfsit vzj xfqyfxj df
ijq hfwwt d ansnjxj hts éq f qfx rfstx, jsywj qfx hzfqjx ujsxfgf mfhjwqj
ujifetx.

Mfxyf fvzí qqjló jq jxywjrt ij xz ofráx anxyf qthzwf. Ujwt jq ljsjwtxt
qjós, ráx htrjinit vzj fwwtlfsyj, st mfhnjsit hfxt ij snñjwífx, sn ij
gwfafyfx, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw rnwfit f zsf d tywf ufwyj, htrt xj mf inhmt,
atqanó qfx jxufqifx d jsxjñó xzx ywfxjwfx ufwyjx f its Vznotyj, d hts lwfs
kqjrf d wjrfsxt xj atqanó f jhmfw js qf ofzqf. Anjsit qt hzfq its Vznotyj,
rfsió fq qjtsjwt vzj qj injxj ij ufqtx d qj nwwnyfxj ufwf jhmfwqj kzjwf.

-Jxt st mfwé dt -wjxutsinó jq qjtsjwt-, utwvzj xn dt qj nsxynlt, jq uwnrjwt
f vznjs mfwá ujifetx xjwá f rí rnxrt. Azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, xj
htsyjsyj hts qt mjhmt, vzj jx ytit qt vzj uzjij ijhnwxj js lésjwt ij
afqjsyíf, d st vznjwf yjsyfw xjlzsif ktwyzsf. Jq qjós ynjsj fgnjwyf qf
uzjwyf: js xz rfst jxyá xfqnw, t st xfqnw; ujwt, uzjx st mf xfqnit mfxyf
fmtwf, st xfqiwá js ytit jq iíf. Qf lwfsijef ijq htwfeós ij azjxf rjwhji df
jxyá gnjs ijhqfwfif: snslús gwfat ujqjfsyj, xjlús f rí xj rj fqhfsef, jxyá
tgqnlfit f ráx vzj f ijxfknfw f xz jsjrnlt d jxujwfwqj js hfrufñf; d xn jq
htsywfwnt st fhzij, js éq xj vzjif qf nskfrnf, d jq jxujwfsyj lfsf qf
htwtsf ijq ajshnrnjsyt.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: hnjwwf, frnlt, qf uzjwyf, d ifrj
utw yjxynrtsnt, js qf rjotw ktwrf vzj uzinjwjx, qt vzj fvzí rj mfx anxyt
mfhjw; htsanjsj f xfgjw: hórt yú fgwnxyj fq qjós, dt qj jxujwé, éq st
xfqnó; atqaíqj f jxujwfw, atqanó f st xfqnw d atqanóxj fhtxyfw. St ijgt
ráx, d jshfsytx fkzjwf, d Intx fdzij f qf wfeós d f qf ajwifi, d f qf
ajwifijwf hfgfqqjwíf; d hnjwwf, htrt mj inhmt, js yfsyt vzj mflt xjñfx f
qtx mznitx d fzxjsyjx, ufwf vzj xjufs ij yz gthf jxyf mfefñf.

Míetqt fxí jq qjtsjwt, d its Vznotyj, utsnjsit js qf uzsyf ij qf qfsef jq
qnjset hts vzj xj mfgíf qnrunfit jq wtxywt ij qf qqzanf ij qtx wjvzjxtsjx,
htrjseó f qqfrfw f qtx vzj st ijofgfs ij mznw sn ij atqajw qf hfgjef f hfif
ufxt, ytitx js ywtuf d fsyjhtlnitx ijq mnifqlt; ujwt, fqhfsefsit Xfshmt f
ajw qf xjñfq ijq gqfsht ufñt, inot:

-Vzj rj rfyjs xn rn xjñtw st mf ajshnit f qfx knjwfx gjxynfx, uzjx stx
qqfrf.

Ijyzanéwtsxj ytitx, d htsthnjwts vzj jq vzj mfhíf qfx xjñfx jwf its
Vznotyj; d, ujwinjsit fqlzsf ufwyj ijq rnjit, utht f utht xj ansnjwts
fhjwhfsit mfxyf itsij hqfwfrjsyj tdjwts qfx athjx ij its Vznotyj, vzj qtx
qqfrfgf. Knsfqrjsyj, atqanjwts fq hfwwt, d, js qqjlfsit, inot its Vznotyj
fq hfwwjyjwt:

-Atqaji, mjwrfst, f zshnw azjxywfx rzqfx d f uwtxjlznw azjxywt anfoj; d yú,
Xfshmt, ifqj itx jxhzitx ij twt, ufwf éq d ufwf jq qjtsjwt, js wjhtrujsxf
ij qt vzj utw rí xj mfs ijyjsnit.

-Éxtx ifwé dt ij rzd gzjsf lfsf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; ujwt, ¿vzé xj mfs mjhmt
qtx qjtsjx? ¿Xts rzjwytx, t anatx?

Jsytshjx jq qjtsjwt, rjszifrjsyj d utw xzx ufzxfx, htsyó jq kns ij qf
htsynjsif, jcfljwfsit, htrt éq rjotw uzit d xzut, jq afqtw ij its Vznotyj,
ij hzdf anxyf jq qjós, fhtgfwifit, st vznxt sn txó xfqnw ij qf ofzqf,
uzjxyt vzj mfgíf yjsnit zs gzjs jxufhnt fgnjwyf qf uzjwyf ij qf ofzqf; d
vzj, utw mfgjw éq inhmt f fvzjq hfgfqqjwt vzj jwf yjsyfw f Intx nwwnyfw fq
qjós ufwf vzj utw kzjwef xfqnjxj, htrt éq vzjwíf vzj xj nwwnyfxj, rfq ij xz
lwfit d htsywf ytif xz atqzsyfi, mfgíf ujwrnynit vzj qf uzjwyf xj hjwwfxj.

-¿Vzé yj ufwjhj ijxyt, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj-. ¿Mfd jshfsytx vzj afqlfs
htsywf qf ajwifijwf afqjsyíf? Gnjs utiwás qtx jshfsyfitwjx vznyfwrj qf
ajsyzwf, ujwt jq jxkzjwet d jq ásnrt, xjwá nrutxngqj.

Int qtx jxhzitx Xfshmt, zshnó jq hfwwjyjwt, gjxó qfx rfstx jq qjtsjwt f its
Vznotyj utw qf rjwhji wjhjgnif, d uwtrjynóqj ij htsyfw fvzjqqf afqjwtxf
mfefñf fq rnxrt wjd, hzfsit js qf htwyj xj anjxj.

-Uzjx, xn fhfxt Xz Rfojxyfi uwjlzsyfwj vznés qf mnet, inwénxqj vzj jq
Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx, vzj ij fvzí fijqfsyj vznjwt vzj js éxyj xj
ywzjvzj, hfrgnj, azjqaf d rzij jq vzj mfxyf fvzí mj yjsnit ijq Hfgfqqjwt ij
qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf; d js jxyt xnlt qf fsynlzf zxfsef ij qtx fsifsyjx
hfgfqqjwtx, vzj xj rzifgfs qtx strgwjx hzfsit vzjwífs, t hzfsit qjx ajsíf f
hzjsyt.

Xnlznó xz hfrnst jq hfwwt, d its Vznotyj, Xfshmt d jq ijq Ajwij Lfgás
uwtxnlznjwts jq xzdt.

Js ytit jxyj ynjrut st mfgíf mfgqfit ufqfgwf its Injlt ij Rnwfsif, ytit
fyjsyt f rnwfw d f styfw qtx mjhmtx d ufqfgwfx ij its Vznotyj, ufwjhnésitqj
vzj jwf zs hzjwit qtht d zs qtht vzj ynwfgf f hzjwit. St mfgíf fús qqjlfit
f xz stynhnf qf uwnrjwf ufwyj ij xz mnxytwnf; vzj xn qf mzgnjwf qjíit,
hjxfwf qf firnwfhnós js vzj qt utsífs xzx mjhmtx d xzx ufqfgwfx, uzjx df
xzunjwf jq lésjwt ij xz qthzwf; ujwt, htrt st qf xfgíf, df qj yjsíf utw
hzjwit d df utw qtht, utwvzj qt vzj mfgqfgf jwf htshjwyfit, jqjlfsyj d gnjs
inhmt, d qt vzj mfhíf, inxufwfyfit, yjrjwfwnt d ytsyt. D ijhíf jsywj xí:

-¿Vzé ráx qthzwf uzjij xjw vzj utsjwxj qf hjqfif qqjsf ij wjvzjxtsjx d
ifwxj f jsyjsijw vzj qj fgqfsifgfs qtx hfxhtx qtx jshfsyfitwjx? D ¿vzé
rfdtw yjrjwnifi d inxufwfyj vzj vzjwjw ujqjfw utw kzjwef hts qjtsjx?

Ijxyfx nrflnsfhntsjx d ijxyj xtqnqtvznt qj xfhó its Vznotyj, inhnésitqj:

-¿Vznés izif, xjñtw its Injlt ij Rnwfsif, vzj azjxywf rjwhji st rj yjslf js
xz tunsnós utw zs mtrgwj inxufwfyfit d qtht? D st xjwíf rzhmt vzj fxí
kzjxj, utwvzj rnx tgwfx st uzjijs ifw yjxynrtsnt ij tywf htxf. Uzjx, hts
ytit jxyt, vznjwt vzj azjxywf rjwhji fianjwyf vzj st xtd yfs qtht sn yfs
rjslzfit htrt ijgt ij mfgjwqj ufwjhnit. Gnjs ufwjhj zs lfqqfwit hfgfqqjwt,
f qtx totx ij xz wjd, js qf rnyfi ij zsf lwfs uqfef, ifw zsf qfsefif hts
kjqnhj xzhjxt f zs gwfat ytwt; gnjs ufwjhj zs hfgfqqjwt, fwrfit ij
wjxuqfsijhnjsyjx fwrfx, ufxfw qf yjqf js fqjlwjx ozxyfx ijqfsyj ij qfx
ifrfx, d gnjs ufwjhjs ytitx fvzjqqtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj js jojwhnhntx
rnqnyfwjx, t vzj qt ufwjehfs, jsywjynjsjs d fqjlwfs, d, xn xj uzjij ijhnw,
mtswfs qfx htwyjx ij xzx uwíshnujx; ujwt xtgwj ytitx éxytx ufwjhj rjotw zs
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj utw qtx ijxnjwytx, utw qfx xtqjifijx, utw qfx
jshwzhnofifx, utw qfx xjqafx d utw qtx rtsyjx fsif gzxhfsit ujqnlwtxfx
fajsyzwfx, hts nsyjshnós ij ifwqjx inhmtxf d gnjs fktwyzsfif hnrf, xóqt utw
fqhfsefw lqtwntxf kfrf d izwfijwf. Rjotw ufwjhj, inlt, zs hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj, xthtwwnjsit f zsf anzif js fqlús ijxutgqfit, vzj zs htwyjxfst
hfgfqqjwt, wjvzjgwfsit f zsf itshjqqf js qfx hnzifijx. Ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx
ynjsjs xzx ufwynhzqfwjx jojwhnhntx: xnwaf f qfx ifrfx jq htwyjxfst;
fzytwnhj qf htwyj ij xz wjd hts qngwjfx; xzxyjsyj qtx hfgfqqjwtx utgwjx hts
jq jxuqésinit uqfyt ij xz rjxf; htshnjwyj ozxyfx, rfsyjslf ytwsjtx d
rzéxywjxj lwfsij, qngjwfq d rflsíknht, d gzjs hwnxynfst, xtgwj ytit, d
ijxyf rfsjwf hzruqnwá hts xzx uwjhnxfx tgqnlfhntsjx. Ujwt jq fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwt gzxvzj qtx wnshtsjx ijq rzsit; ésywjxj js qtx ráx nsywnhfitx
qfgjwnsytx; fhtrjyf f hfif ufxt qt nrutxngqj; wjxnxyf js qtx uáwfrtx
ijxutgqfitx qtx fwinjsyjx wfdtx ijq xtq js qf rnyfi ijq ajwfst, d js jq
nsanjwst qf izwf nshqjrjshnf ij qtx anjsytx d ij qtx djqtx; st qj fxtrgwjs
qjtsjx, sn qj jxufsyjs ajxynlqtx, sn fyjrtwnhjs jsiwnfltx; vzj gzxhfw
éxytx, fhtrjyjw fvzéqqtx d ajshjwqtx f ytitx xts xzx uwnshnufqjx d
ajwifijwtx jojwhnhntx. Dt, uzjx, htrt rj hzut js xzjwyj xjw zst ijq súrjwt
ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, st uzjit ijofw ij fhtrjyjw ytit fvzjqqt vzj f rí
rj ufwjhnjwj vzj hfj ijgfot ij qf ozwninhnós ij rnx jojwhnhntx; d fxí, jq
fhtrjyjw qtx qjtsjx vzj fmtwf fhtrjyí ijwjhmfrjsyj rj ythfgf, uzjxyt vzj
htsthí xjw yjrjwnifi jxtwgnyfsyj, utwvzj gnjs xé qt vzj jx afqjsyíf, vzj jx
zsf anwyzi vzj jxyá uzjxyf jsywj itx jxywjrtx anhntxtx, htrt xts qf
htgfwiíf d qf yjrjwnifi; ujwt rjstx rfq xjwá vzj jq vzj jx afqnjsyj ytvzj d
xzgf fq uzsyt ij yjrjwfwnt, vzj st vzj gfoj d ytvzj js jq uzsyt ij htgfwij;
vzj fxí htrt jx ráx káhnq ajsnw jq uwóinlt f xjw qngjwfq vzj fq fafwt, fxí
jx ráx káhnq ifw jq yjrjwfwnt js ajwifijwt afqnjsyj vzj st jq htgfwij xzgnw
f qf ajwifijwf afqjsyíf; d, js jxyt ij fhtrjyjw fajsyzwfx, hwéfrj azjxf
rjwhji, xjñtw its Injlt, vzj fsyjx xj mf ij ujwijw utw hfwyf ij ráx vzj ij
rjstx, utwvzj rjotw xzjsf js qfx twjofx ij qtx vzj qt tdjs "jq yfq
hfgfqqjwt jx yjrjwfwnt d fywjanit" vzj st "jq yfq hfgfqqjwt jx yírnit d
htgfwij".

-Inlt, xjñtw its Vznotyj -wjxutsinó its Injlt-, vzj ytit qt vzj azjxf
rjwhji mf inhmt d mjhmt af snajqfit hts jq knjq ij qf rnxrf wfeós, d vzj
jsynjsit vzj xn qfx twijsfsefx d qjdjx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj xj
ujwinjxjs, xj mfqqfwífs js jq ujhmt ij azjxf rjwhji htrt js xz rnxrt
ijuóxnyt d fwhmnat. D iértstx uwnjxf, vzj xj mfhj yfwij, d qqjlzjrtx f rn
fqijf d hfxf, itsij ijxhfsxfwá azjxywf rjwhji ijq ufxfit ywfgfot, vzj xn st
mf xnit ijq hzjwut, mf xnit ijq jxuíwnyz, vzj xzjqj yfq aje wjizsifw js
hfsxfshnt ijq hzjwut.

-Yjslt jq tkwjhnrnjsyt f lwfs kfatw d rjwhji, xjñtw its Injlt- wjxutsinó
its Vznotyj.

D, unhfsit ráx ij qt vzj mfxyf jsytshjx, xjwífs htrt qfx itx ij qf yfwij
hzfsit qqjlfwts f qf fqijf d f qf hfxf ij its Injlt, f vznjs its Vznotyj
qqfrfgf jq Hfgfqqjwt ijq Ajwij Lfgás.





Hfuíyzqt CANNN. Ij qt vzj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj js jq hfxynqqt t hfxf ijq
Hfgfqqjwt ijq Ajwij Lfgás, hts tywfx htxfx jcywfaflfsyjx


Mfqqó its Vznotyj xjw qf hfxf ij its Injlt ij Rnwfsif fshmf htrt ij fqijf;
qfx fwrfx, jrujwt, fzsvzj ij unjiwf ytxhf, jshnrf ij qf uzjwyf ij qf hfqqj;
qf gtijlf, js jq ufynt; qf hzjaf, js jq utwyfq, d rzhmfx ynsfofx f qf
wjitsif, vzj, utw xjw ijq Ytgtxt, qj wjstafwts qfx rjrtwnfx ij xz jshfsyfif
d ywfsxktwrfif Izqhnsjf; d xtxunwfsit, d xns rnwfw qt vzj ijhíf, sn ijqfsyj
ij vznés jxyfgf, inot:

-¡Tm izqhjx uwjsifx, utw rn rfq mfqqfifx,

izqhjx d fqjlwjx hzfsit Intx vzjwíf!

¡Tm ytgtxjxhfx ynsfofx, vzj rj mfgénx ywfíit f qf rjrtwnf qf izqhj uwjsif
ij rn rfdtw frfwlzwf!

Tdóqj ijhnw jxyt jq jxyzinfsyj utjyf, mnot ij its Injlt, vzj hts xz rfiwj
mfgíf xfqnit f wjhjgnwqj, d rfiwj d mnot vzjifwts xzxujsxtx ij ajw qf
jxywfñf knlzwf ij its Vznotyj; jq hzfq, fujásitxj ij Wthnsfsyj, kzj hts
rzhmf htwyjxíf f ujinwqj qfx rfstx ufwf gjxáwxjqfx, d its Injlt inot:

-Wjhjgni, xjñtwf, hts azjxywt xóqnyt flwfit fq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, vzj jx jq vzj yjsénx ijqfsyj, fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt d jq ráx afqnjsyj d
jq ráx inxhwjyt vzj ynjsj jq rzsit.

Qf xjñtwf, vzj itñf Hwnxynsf xj qqfrfgf, qj wjhngnó hts rzjxywfx ij rzhmt
frtw d ij rzhmf htwyjxíf, d its Vznotyj xj qj tkwjhnó hts fxfe ij inxhwjyfx
d htrjinifx wfetsjx. Hfxn qtx rnxrtx htrjinrnjsytx ufxó hts jq jxyzinfsyj,
vzj, js tdésitqj mfgqfw its Vznotyj, qj yzat utw inxhwjyt d flzit.

Fvzí unsyf jq fzytw ytifx qfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx ij qf hfxf ij its Injlt,
unsyásitstx js jqqfx qt vzj htsynjsj zsf hfxf ij zs hfgfqqjwt qfgwfitw d
wnht; ujwt fq ywfizhytw ijxyf mnxytwnf qj ufwjhnó ufxfw jxyfx d tywfx
xjrjofsyjx rjszijshnfx js xnqjshnt, utwvzj st ajsífs gnjs hts jq uwtuóxnyt
uwnshnufq ij qf mnxytwnf, qf hzfq ráx ynjsj xz kzjwef js qf ajwifi vzj js
qfx kwífx inlwjxntsjx.

Jsywfwts f its Vznotyj js zsf xfqf, ijxfwróqj Xfshmt, vzjió js afqtsjx d js
ozgós ij hfrzef, ytit gnxzsyt hts qf rzlwj ij qfx fwrfx: jq hzjqqt jwf
afqtsf f qt jxyzinfsynq, xns fqrniós d xns wfsifx; qtx gtwhjlzíjx jwfs
ifynqfitx, d jshjwfitx qtx efufytx. Hnñóxj xz gzjsf jxufif, vzj ujsiíf ij
zs yfmfqí ij qtgtx rfwnstx; vzj jx tunsnós vzj rzhmtx fñtx kzj jskjwrt ij
qtx wnñtsjx; hzgwnóxj zs mjwwjwzjqt ij gzjs ufñt ufwit; ujwt fsyjx ij ytit,
hts hnsht hfqijwtx, t xjnx, ij flzf, vzj js qf hfsynifi ij qtx hfqijwtx mfd
fqlzsf inkjwjshnf, xj qfaó qf hfgjef d wtxywt, d ytifaíf xj vzjió jq flzf
ij htqtw ij xzjwt, rjwhji f qf ltqtxnsf ij Xfshmt d f qf htruwf ij xzx
sjlwtx wjvzjxtsjx, vzj yfs gqfsht uzxnjwts f xz frt. Hts qtx wjkjwnitx
fyfaítx, d hts ljsynq itsfnwj d lfqqfwiíf, xfqnó its Vznotyj f tywf xfqf,
itsij jq jxyzinfsyj qj jxyfgf jxujwfsit ufwf jsywjyjsjwqj js yfsyt vzj qfx
rjxfx xj utsífs; vzj, utw qf ajsnif ij yfs stgqj mzéxuji, vzjwíf qf xjñtwf
itñf Hwnxynsf rtxywfw vzj xfgíf d utiíf wjlfqfw f qtx vzj f xz hfxf
qqjlfxjs.

Js yfsyt vzj its Vznotyj xj jxyzat ijxfwrfsit, yzat qzlfw its Qtwjset, vzj
fxí xj qqfrfgf jq mnot ij its Injlt, ij ijhnw f xz ufiwj:

-¿Vznés inwjrtx, xjñtw, vzj jx jxyj hfgfqqjwt vzj azjxf rjwhji stx mf
ywfíit f hfxf? Vzj jq strgwj, qf knlzwf, d jq ijhnw vzj jx hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj, f rí d f rn rfiwj stx ynjsj xzxujsxtx.

-St xé qt vzj yj inlf, mnot -wjxutsinó its Injlt-; xóqt yj xfgwé ijhnw vzj
qj mj anxyt mfhjw htxfx ijq rfdtw qtht ijq rzsit, d ijhnw wfetsjx yfs
inxhwjyfx vzj gtwwfs d ijxmfhjs xzx mjhmtx: mágqfqj yú, d ytrf jq uzqxt f
qt vzj xfgj, d, uzjx jwjx inxhwjyt, ozelf ij xz inxhwjhnós t ytsyjwíf qt
vzj ráx uzjxyt js wfeós jxyzanjwj; fzsvzj, ufwf ijhnw ajwifi, fsyjx qj
yjslt utw qtht vzj utw hzjwit.

Hts jxyt, xj kzj its Qtwjset f jsywjyjsjw f its Vznotyj, htrt vzjif inhmt,
d, jsywj tywfx uqáynhfx vzj qtx itx ufxfwts, inot its Vznotyj f its
Qtwjset:

-Jq xjñtw its Injlt ij Rnwfsif, ufiwj ij azjxf rjwhji, rj mf ifit stynhnf
ij qf wfwf mfgnqnifi d xzynq nsljsnt vzj azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj, d, xtgwj
ytit, vzj jx azjxf rjwhji zs lwfs utjyf.

-Utjyf, gnjs utiwá xjw -wjxutsinó its Qtwjset-, ujwt lwfsij, sn utw
ujsxfrnjsyt. Ajwifi jx vzj dt xtd fqlús yfsyt fknhntsfit f qf utjxíf d f
qjjw qtx gzjstx utjyfx, ujwt st ij rfsjwf vzj xj rj uzjif ifw jq strgwj ij
lwfsij vzj rn ufiwj inhj.

-St rj ufwjhj rfq jxf mzrnqifi -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj st mfd utjyf
vzj st xjf fwwtlfsyj d unjsxj ij xí vzj jx jq rfdtw utjyf ijq rzsit.

-St mfd wjlqf xns jchjuhnós -wjxutsinó its Qtwjset-, d fqlzst mfgwá vzj qt
xjf d st qt unjsxj.

-Uthtx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; ujwt iílfrj azjxf rjwhji: ¿vzé ajwxtx xts
qtx vzj fltwf ywfj jsywj rfstx, vzj rj mf inhmt jq xjñtw xz ufiwj vzj qj
ywfjs fqlt nsvznjyt d ujsxfynat? D xn jx fqlzsf lqtxf, f rí xj rj jsynjsij
fqlt ij fhmfvzj ij lqtxfx, d mtqlfwíf xfgjwqtx; d xn jx vzj xts ij ozxyf
qnyjwfwnf, uwthzwj azjxywf rjwhji qqjafw jq xjlzsit uwjrnt, vzj jq uwnrjwt
xnjruwj xj qqjaf jq kfatw t qf lwfs hfqnifi ij qf ujwxtsf, jq xjlzsit xj qj
qqjaf qf rjwf ozxynhnf, d jq yjwhjwt anjsj f xjw xjlzsit, d jq uwnrjwt, f
jxyf hzjsyf, xjwá jq yjwhjwt, fq rtit ij qfx qnhjshnfx vzj xj ifs js qfx
zsnajwxnifijx; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, lwfs ujwxtsfoj jx jq strgwj ij uwnrjwt.

-Mfxyf fmtwf -inot jsywj xí its Qtwjset-, st tx utiwé dt ozelfw utw qtht;
afrtx fijqfsyj.

D iíotqj:

-Ufwéhjrj vzj azjxf rjwhji mf hzwxfit qfx jxhzjqfx: ¿vzé hnjshnfx mf tíit?

-Qf ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj jx yfs gzjsf htrt
qf ij qf utjxíf, d fzs itx ijinytx ráx.

-St xé vzé hnjshnf xjf éxf -wjuqnhó its Qtwjset-, d mfxyf fmtwf st mf
qqjlfit f rn stynhnf.

-Jx zsf hnjshnf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj- vzj jshnjwwf js xí ytifx t qfx ráx
hnjshnfx ijq rzsit, f hfzxf vzj jq vzj qf uwtkjxf mf ij xjw ozwnxujwnyt, d
xfgjw qfx qjdjx ij qf ozxynhnf inxywngzynaf d htrzyfynaf, ufwf ifw f hfif
zst qt vzj jx xzdt d qt vzj qj htsanjsj; mf ij xjw yjóqtlt, ufwf xfgjw ifw
wfeós ij qf hwnxynfsf qjd vzj uwtkjxf, hqfwf d inxynsyfrjsyj, fitsijvznjwf
vzj qj kzjwj ujinit; mf ij xjw réinht d uwnshnufqrjsyj mjwgtqfwnt, ufwf
htsthjw js rnyfi ij qtx ijxutgqfitx d ijxnjwytx qfx djwgfx vzj ynjsjs
anwyzi ij xfsfw qfx mjwnifx, vzj st mf ij fsifw jq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj f hfif
ywnvzjyj gzxhfsit vznjs xj qfx hzwj; mf ij xjw fxywóqtlt, ufwf htsthjw utw
qfx jxywjqqfx hzásyfx mtwfx xts ufxfifx ij qf sthmj, d js vzé ufwyj d js
vzé hqnrf ijq rzsit xj mfqqf; mf ij xfgjw qfx rfyjráynhfx, utwvzj f hfif
ufxt xj qj tkwjhjwá yjsjw sjhjxnifi ijqqfx; d, ijofsit fufwyj vzj mf ij
jxyfw fitwsfit ij ytifx qfx anwyzijx yjtqtlfqjx d hfwinsfqjx, ijhjsinjsit f
tywfx rjszijshnfx, inlt vzj mf ij xfgjw sfifw htrt inhjs vzj sfifgf jq ujoj
Snhtqáx t Snhtqft; mf ij xfgjw mjwwfw zs hfgfqqt d fijwjefw qf xnqqf d jq
kwjst; d, atqanjsit f qt ij fwwngf, mf ij lzfwifw qf kj f Intx d f xz ifrf;
mf ij xjw hfxyt js qtx ujsxfrnjsytx, mtsjxyt js qfx ufqfgwfx, qngjwfq js
qfx tgwfx, afqnjsyj js qtx mjhmtx, xzkwnit js qtx ywfgfotx, hfwnyfynat hts
qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx, d, knsfqrjsyj, rfsyjsjitw ij qf ajwifi, fzsvzj qj hzjxyj
qf anif jq ijkjsijwqf. Ij ytifx jxyfx lwfsijx d rísnrfx ufwyjx xj htrutsj
zs gzjs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; utwvzj ajf azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Qtwjset, xn
jx hnjshnf rthtxf qt vzj fuwjsij jq hfgfqqjwt vzj qf jxyzinf d qf uwtkjxf,
d xn xj uzjij nlzfqfw f qfx ráx jxynwfifx vzj js qtx lnsfxntx d jxhzjqfx xj
jsxjñfs.

-Xn jxt jx fxí -wjuqnhó its Qtwjset-, dt inlt vzj xj fajsyfof jxf hnjshnf f
ytifx.

-¿Hórt xn jx fxí? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

Qt vzj dt vznjwt ijhnw -inot its Qtwjset- jx vzj izit vzj mfdf mfgnit, sn
vzj qtx mfd fmtwf, hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx d fitwsfitx ij anwyzijx yfsyfx.

-Rzhmfx ajhjx mj inhmt qt vzj azjqat f ijhnw fmtwf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-:
vzj qf rfdtw ufwyj ij qf ljsyj ijq rzsit jxyá ij ufwjhjw ij vzj st mf
mfgnit js éq hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx; d, utw ufwjhjwrj f rí vzj xn jq hnjqt
rnqflwtxfrjsyj st qjx if f jsyjsijw qf ajwifi ij vzj qtx mzgt d ij vzj qtx
mfd, hzfqvznjw ywfgfot vzj xj ytrj mf ij xjw js afst, htrt rzhmfx ajhjx rj
qt mf rtxywfit qf jcujwnjshnf, st vznjwt ijyjsjwrj fltwf js xfhfw f azjxf
rjwhji ijq jwwtw vzj hts qtx rzhmtx ynjsj; qt vzj unjsxt mfhjw jx jq wtlfw
fq hnjqt qj xfvzj iéq, d qj ié f jsyjsijw hzás uwtajhmtxtx d hzás
sjhjxfwntx kzjwts fq rzsit qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx js qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx, d
hzás úynqjx kzjwfs js jq uwjxjsyj xn xj zxfwfs; ujwt ywnzskfs fmtwf, utw
ujhfitx ij qfx ljsyjx, qf ujwjef, qf thntxnifi, qf lzqf d jq wjlfqt.

-Jxhfufit xj stx mf szjxywt mzéxuji -inot f jxyf xfeós jsywj xí its
Qtwjset-, ujwt, hts ytit jxt, éq jx qtht gnefwwt, d dt xjwíf rjsyjhfyt
kqtot xn fxí st qt hwjdjxj.

Fvzí injwts kns f xz uqáynhf, utwvzj qtx qqfrfwts f htrjw. Uwjlzsyó its
Injlt f xz mnot vzé mfgíf xfhfit js qnrunt ijq nsljsnt ijq mzéxuji. F qt
vzj éq wjxutsinó:

-St qj xfhfwás ijq gtwwfitw ij xz qthzwf hzfsytx réinhtx d gzjstx
jxhwngfstx ynjsj jq rzsit: éq jx zs jsywjajwfit qtht, qqjst ij qúhnitx
nsyjwafqtx.

Kzéwtsxj f htrjw, d qf htrnif kzj yfq htrt its Injlt mfgíf inhmt js jq
hfrnst vzj qf xtqíf ifw f xzx htsanifitx: qnrunf, fgzsifsyj d xfgwtxf; ujwt
ij qt vzj ráx xj htsyjsyó its Vznotyj kzj ijq rfwfanqqtxt xnqjshnt vzj js
ytif qf hfxf mfgíf, vzj xjrjofgf zs rtsfxyjwnt ij hfwyzotx. Qjafsyfitx,
uzjx, qtx rfsyjqjx, d ififx lwfhnfx f Intx d flzf f qfx rfstx, its
Vznotyj uninó fmnshfifrjsyj f its Qtwjset inojxj qtx ajwxtx ij qf ozxyf
qnyjwfwnf; f qt vzj éq wjxutsinó vzj, utw st ufwjhjw ij fvzjqqtx utjyfx vzj
hzfsit qjx wzjlfs inlfs xzx ajwxtx qtx snjlfs d hzfsit st xj qtx unijs qtx
atrnyfs,...

-...dt inwé rn lqtxf, ij qf hzfq st jxujwt uwjrnt fqlzst, vzj xóqt utw
jojwhnyfw jq nsljsnt qf mj mjhmt.

-Zs frnlt d inxhwjyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- jwf ij ufwjhjw vzj st xj mfgíf
ij hfsxfw sfinj js lqtxfw ajwxtx; d qf wfeós, ijhíf éq, jwf vzj ofráx qf
lqtxf utiíf qqjlfw fq yjcyt, d vzj rzhmfx t qfx ráx ajhjx ngf qf lqtxf
kzjwf ij qf nsyjshnós d uwtuóxnyt ij qt vzj ujiíf qt vzj xj lqtxfgf; d ráx,
vzj qfx qjdjx ij qf lqtxf jwfs ijrfxnfifrjsyj jxywjhmfx: vzj st xzkwífs
nsyjwwtlfsyjx, sn inot, sn inwé, sn mfhjw strgwjx ij ajwgtx, sn rzifw jq
xjsynit, hts tywfx fyfizwfx d jxywjhmjefx hts vzj afs fyfitx qtx vzj
lqtxfs, htrt azjxywf rjwhji ijgj ij xfgjw.

-Ajwifijwfrjsyj, xjñtw its Vznotyj -inot its Qtwjset-, vzj ijxjt htljw f
azjxywf rjwhji js zs rfq qfyís htsynszfit, d st uzjit, utwvzj xj rj ijxqnef
ij jsywj qfx rfstx htrt fslznqf.

-St jsynjsit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj sn vznjwj
ijhnw js jxt ijq ijxqnefwrj.

-Dt rj ifwé f jsyjsijw -wjxutsinó its Qtwjset-; d utw fmtwf jxyé azjxf
rjwhji fyjsyt f qtx ajwxtx lqtxfitx d f qf lqtxf, vzj inhjs ijxyf rfsjwf:

   ¡Xn rn kzj ytwsfxj f jx,
   xns jxujwfw ráx xjwá,
   t ansnjxj jq ynjrut df
   ij qt vzj xjwá ijxuzéx...!

Lqtxf

   Fq kns, htrt ytit ufxf,
   xj ufxó jq gnjs vzj rj int
   Ktwyzsf, zs ynjrut st jxhfxf,
   d szshf rj qj atqanó,
   sn fgzsifsyj, sn utw yfxf.
   Xnlqtx mf df vzj rj ajjx,
   Ktwyzsf, uzjxyt f yzx unjx;
   azéqajrj f xjw ajsyzwtxt,
   vzj xjwá rn xjw inhmtxt
   xn rn kzj ytwsfxj f jx.
   St vznjwt tywt lzxyt t lqtwnf,
   tywf ufqrf t ajshnrnjsyt,
   tywt ywnzskt, tywf anytwnf,
   xnst atqajw fq htsyjsyt
   vzj jx ujxfw js rn rjrtwnf.
   Xn yú rj azjqajx fqqá,
   Ktwyzsf, yjruqfit jxyá
   ytit jq wnltw ij rn kzjlt,
   d ráx xn jxyj gnjs jx qzjlt,
   xns jxujwfw ráx xjwá.
   Htxfx nrutxngqjx unit,
   uzjx atqajw jq ynjrut f xjw
   ijxuzéx vzj zsf aje mf xnit,
   st mfd js qf ynjwwf utijw
   vzj f yfsyt xj mfdf jxyjsinit.
   Htwwj jq ynjrut, azjqf d af
   qnljwt, d st atqajwá,
   d jwwfwíf jq vzj uninjxj,
   t vzj jq ynjrut df xj kzjxj,
   t atqanjxj jq ynjrut df.
   Anat js ujwuqjof anif,
   df jxujwfsit, df yjrnjsit:
   jx rzjwyj rzd htsthnif,
   d jx rzhmt rjotw rzwnjsit
   gzxhfw fq itqtw xfqnif.
   F rí rj kzjwf nsyjwéx
   fhfgfw, rfx st qt jx,
   uzjx, hts inxhzwxt rjotw,
   rj if qf anif jq yjrtw
   ij qt vzj xjwá ijxuzéx.

Js fhfgfsit ij ijhnw xz lqtxf its Qtwjset, xj qjafsyó js unj its Vznotyj,
d, js ate qjafsyfif, vzj ufwjhíf lwnyt, fxnjsit hts xz rfst qf ijwjhmf ij
its Qtwjset, inot:

-¡Anajs qtx hnjqtx itsij ráx fqytx jxyás, rfshjgt ljsjwtxt, vzj xtnx jq
rjotw utjyf ijq twgj, d vzj rjwjhénx jxyfw qfzwjfit, st utw Hmnuwj sn utw
Lfjyf, htrt inot zs utjyf, vzj Intx ujwitsj, xnst utw qfx fhfijrnfx ij
Fyjsfx, xn mtd ananjwfs, d utw qfx vzj mtd anajs ij Ufwíx, Gtqtsnf d
Xfqfrfshf! Uqjlf fq hnjqt vzj qtx ozjhjx vzj tx vznyfwjs jq uwjrnt uwnrjwt,
Kjgt qtx fxfjyjj d qfx Rzxfx ofráx fywfanjxjs qtx zrgwfqjx ij xzx hfxfx.
Ijhnirj, xjñtw, xn xtnx xjwanit, fqlzstx ajwxtx rfdtwjx, vzj vznjwt ytrfw
ij ytit js ytit jq uzqxt f azjxywt firnwfgqj nsljsnt.

¿St jx gzjst vzj inhjs vzj xj mtqló its Qtwjset ij ajwxj fqfgfw ij its
Vznotyj, fzsvzj qj yjsíf utw qtht? ¡Tm kzjwef ij qf fizqfhnós, f hzásyt yj
jxynjsijx, d hzás inqfyfitx qírnyjx xts qtx ij yz ozwninhnós flwfifgqj!
Jxyf ajwifi fhwjinyó its Qtwjset, uzjx htshjinó hts qf ijrfsif d ijxjt ij
its Vznotyj, inhnésitqj jxyj xtsjyt f qf kágzqf t mnxytwnf ij Uíwfrt d
Ynxgj:

Xtsjyt

   Jq rzwt wtruj qf itshjqqf mjwrtxf
   vzj ij Uíwfrt fgwnó jq lfqqfwit ujhmt:
   ufwyj jq Frtw ij Hmnuwj, d af ijwjhmt
   f ajw qf vznjgwf jxywjhmf d uwtinlntxf.
   Mfgqf jq xnqjshnt fqqí, utwvzj st txf
   qf ate jsywfw utw yfs jxywjhmt jxywjhmt;
   qfx fqrfx xí, vzj frtw xzjqj ij mjhmt
   kfhnqnyfw qf ráx inkíhnq htxf.
   Xfqnó jq ijxjt ij htruáx, d jq ufxt
   ij qf nruwzijsyj anwljs xtqnhnyf
   utw xz lzxyt xz rzjwyj; aji vzé mnxytwnf:
   vzj f jsywfrgtx js zs uzsyt, ¡tm jxywfñt hfxt!,
   qtx rfyf, qtx jshzgwj d wjxzhnyf
   zsf jxufif, zs xjuzqhwt, zsf rjrtwnf.

-¡Gjsinyt xjf Intx! -inot its Vznotyj mfgnjsit tíit jq xtsjyt f its
Qtwjset-, vzj jsywj qtx nsknsnytx utjyfx htsxzrnitx vzj mfd, mj anxyt zs
htsxzrfit utjyf, htrt qt jx azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw rít; vzj fxí rj qt if f
jsyjsijw jq fwynknhnt ijxyj xtsjyt.

Hzfywt iífx jxyzat its Vznotyj wjlfqfiíxnrt js qf hfxf ij its Injlt, fq
hfgt ij qtx hzfqjx qj uninó qnhjshnf ufwf nwxj, inhnésitqj vzj qj flwfijhíf
qf rjwhji d gzjs ywfyfrnjsyt vzj js xz hfxf mfgíf wjhjgnit; ujwt vzj, utw
st ufwjhjw gnjs vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx xj ijs rzhmfx mtwfx f thnt d fq
wjlfqt, xj vzjwíf nw f hzruqnw hts xz tknhnt, gzxhfsit qfx fajsyzwfx, ij
vznjs yjsíf stynhnf vzj fvzjqqf ynjwwf fgzsifgf, itsij jxujwfgf jsywjyjsjw
jq ynjrut mfxyf vzj qqjlfxj jq iíf ij qfx ozxyfx ij Efwfltef, vzj jwf jq ij
xz ijwjhmf ijwwtyf; d vzj uwnrjwt mfgíf ij jsywfw js qf hzjaf ij
Rtsyjxnstx, ij vznjs yfsyfx d yfs firnwfgqjx htxfx js fvzjqqtx htsytwstx xj
htsyfgfs, xfgnjsit j nsvznwnjsit fxnrnxrt jq sfhnrnjsyt d ajwifijwtx
rfsfsynfqjx ij qfx xnjyj qflzsfx qqfrfifx htrúsrjsyj ij Wznijwf.

Its Injlt d xz mnot qj fqfgfwts xz mtswtxf ijyjwrnsfhnós, d qj inojwts vzj
ytrfxj ij xz hfxf d ij xz mfhnjsif ytit qt vzj js lwfit qj ansnjxj, vzj qj
xjwanwífs hts qf atqzsyfi utxngqj; vzj f jqqt qjx tgqnlfgf jq afqtw ij xz
ujwxtsf d qf mtswtxf uwtkjxnós xzdf.

Qqjlóxj, js kns, jq iíf ij xz ufwynif, yfs fqjlwj ufwf its Vznotyj htrt
ywnxyj d fhnflt ufwf Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj xj mfqqfgf rzd gnjs hts qf
fgzsifshnf ij qf hfxf ij its Injlt, d wjmzxfgf ij atqajw f qf mfrgwj vzj xj
zxf js qfx kqtwjxyfx, ijxutgqfitx, d f qf jxywjhmjef ij xzx rfq uwtajíifx
fqktwofx. Hts ytit jxyt, qfx qqjsó d htqró ij qt ráx sjhjxfwnt vzj qj
ufwjhnó; d fq ijxujinwxj inot its Vznotyj f its Qtwjset:

-St xé xn mj inhmt f azjxf rjwhji tywf aje, d xn qt mj inhmt qt azjqat f
ijhnw, vzj hzfsit azjxf rjwhji vznxnjwj fmtwwfw hfrnstx d ywfgfotx ufwf
qqjlfw f qf nsfhjxngqj hzrgwj ijq yjruqt ij qf Kfrf, st ynjsj vzj mfhjw
tywf htxf xnst ijofw f zsf ufwyj qf xjsif ij qf utjxíf, fqlt jxywjhmf, d
ytrfw qf jxywjhmíxnrf ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, gfxyfsyj ufwf mfhjwqj
jrujwfitw js ifhf qfx ufofx.

Hts jxyfx wfetsjx fhfgó its Vznotyj ij hjwwfw jq uwthjxt ij xz qthzwf, d
ráx hts qfx vzj fñfinó, inhnjsit:

-Xfgj Intx xn vznxnjwf qqjafw htsrnlt fq xjñtw its Qtwjset, ufwf jsxjñfwqj
hórt xj mfs ij ujwitsfw qtx xzojytx, d xzujinyfw d fhthjfw qtx xtgjwgntx,
anwyzijx fsjofx f qf uwtkjxnós vzj dt uwtkjxt; ujwt, uzjx st qt unij xz
uthf jifi, sn qt vzjwwás htsxjsynw xzx qtfgqjx jojwhnhntx, xóqt rj htsyjsyt
hts fiajwynwqj f azjxf rjwhji vzj, xnjsit utjyf, utiwá xjw kfrtxt xn xj
lzíf ráx utw jq ufwjhjw fojst vzj utw jq uwtunt, utwvzj st mfd ufiwj sn
rfiwj f vznjs xzx mnotx qj ufwjehfs kjtx, d js qtx vzj qt xts ijq
jsyjsinrnjsyt htwwj ráx jxyj jslfñt.

Ij szjat xj firnwfwts ufiwj d mnot ij qfx jsywjrjynifx wfetsjx ij its
Vznotyj, df inxhwjyfx d df inxufwfyfifx, d ijq yjrf d yjxós vzj qqjafgf ij
fhzinw ij ytit js ytit f qf gzxhf ij xzx ijxajsyzwfifx fajsyzwfx, vzj qfx
yjsíf utw kns d gqfsht ij xzx ijxjtx. Wjnyjwáwtsxj qtx tkwjhnrnjsytx d
htrjinrnjsytx, d, hts qf gzjsf qnhjshnf ij qf xjñtwf ijq hfxynqqt, its
Vznotyj d Xfshmt, xtgwj Wthnsfsyj d jq wzhnt, xj ufwynjwts.





Hfuíyzqt CNC. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf fajsyzwf ijq ufxytw jsfrtwfit, hts tywtx
js ajwifi lwfhntxtx xzhjxtx


Utht ywjhmt xj mfgíf fqtslfit its Vznotyj ijq qzlfw ij its Injlt, hzfsit
jshtsywó hts itx htrt hqéwnltx t htrt jxyzinfsyjx d hts itx qfgwfitwjx vzj
xtgwj hzfywt gjxynfx fxsfqjx ajsífs hfgfqqjwtx. Jq zst ij qtx jxyzinfsyjx
ywfíf, htrt js utwyfrfsyjt, js zs qnjset ij gthfhí ajwij jsazjqyt, fq
ufwjhjw, zs utht ij lwfsf gqfshf d itx ufwjx ij rjinfx ij htwijqqfyj; jq
tywt st ywfíf tywf htxf vzj itx jxufifx sjlwfx ij jxlwnrf, szjafx, d hts
xzx efufynqqfx. Qtx qfgwfitwjx ywfífs tywfx htxfx, vzj ifgfs nsinhnt d
xjñfq vzj ajsífs ij fqlzsf anqqf lwfsij, itsij qfx mfgífs htruwfit, d qfx
qqjafgfs f xz fqijf; d fxí jxyzinfsyjx htrt qfgwfitwjx hfdjwts js qf rnxrf
firnwfhnós js vzj hfífs ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qf aje uwnrjwf ajífs f its
Vznotyj, d rtwífs utw xfgjw vzé mtrgwj kzjxj fvzéq yfs kzjwf ijq zxt ij qtx
tywtx mtrgwjx.

Xfqzióqjx its Vznotyj, d, ijxuzéx ij xfgjw jq hfrnst vzj qqjafgfs, vzj jwf
jq rjxrt vzj éq mfhíf, qjx tkwjhnó xz htrufñíf, d qjx uninó ijyzanjxjs jq
ufxt, utwvzj hfrnsfgfs ráx xzx utqqnsfx vzj xz hfgfqqt; d, ufwf tgqnlfwqtx,
js gwjajx wfetsjx qjx inot vznés jwf, d xz tknhnt d uwtkjxnós, vzj jwf ij
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj vzj ngf f gzxhfw qfx fajsyzwfx utw ytifx qfx ufwyjx ijq
rzsit. Iíotqjx vzj xj qqfrfgf ij strgwj uwtunt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, d
utw jq fujqfynat, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx. Ytit jxyt ufwf qtx qfgwfitwjx
jwf mfgqfwqjx js lwnjlt t js ojwnltsef, ujwt st ufwf qtx jxyzinfsyjx, vzj
qzjlt jsyjsinjwts qf kqfvzjef ijq hjqjgwt ij its Vznotyj; ujwt, hts ytit
jxt, qj rnwfgfs hts firnwfhnós d hts wjxujhyt, d zst ijqqtx qj inot:

-Xn azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, st qqjaf hfrnst ijyjwrnsfit, htrt st
qj xzjqjs qqjafw qtx vzj gzxhfs qfx fajsyzwfx, azjxf rjwhji xj ajslf hts
stxtywtx: ajwá zsf ij qfx rjotwjx gtifx d ráx wnhfx vzj mfxyf jq iíf ij mtd
xj mfgwás hjqjgwfit js qf Rfshmf, sn js tywfx rzhmfx qjlzfx f qf wjitsif.

Uwjlzsyóqj its Vznotyj xn jwfs ij fqlús uwíshnuj, vzj fxí qfx utsijwfgf.

-St xts -wjxutsinó jq jxyzinfsyj- xnst ij zs qfgwfitw d zsf qfgwfitwf: éq,
jq ráx wnht ij ytif jxyf ynjwwf; d jqqf, qf ráx mjwrtxf vzj mfs anxyt qtx
mtrgwjx. Jq fufwfyt hts vzj xj mfs ij mfhjw jx jxywftwinsfwnt d szjat,
utwvzj xj mfs ij hjqjgwfw js zs uwfit vzj jxyá ozsyt fq uzjgqt ij qf stanf,
f vznjs utw jchjqjshnf qqfrfs Vznyjwnf qf mjwrtxf, d jq ijxutxfit xj qqfrf
Hfrfhmt jq wnht; jqqf ij jifi ij inje d thmt fñtx, d éq ij ajnsyj d itx;
frgtx ufwf js zst, fzsvzj fqlzstx hzwntxtx vzj ynjsjs ij rjrtwnf qtx
qnsfojx ij ytit jq rzsit vznjwjs ijhnw vzj jq ij qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf xj
fajsyfof fq ij Hfrfhmt; ujwt df st xj rnwf js jxyt, vzj qfx wnvzjefx xts
utijwtxfx ij xtqifw rzhmfx vznjgwfx. Js jkjhyt, jq yfq Hfrfhmt jx qngjwfq d
máxjqj fsytofit ij jswfrfw d hzgwnw ytit jq uwfit utw fwwngf, ij yfq xzjwyj
vzj jq xtq xj mf ij ajw js ywfgfot xn vznjwj jsywfw f anxnyfw qfx djwgfx
ajwijx ij vzj jxyá hzgnjwyt jq xzjqt. Ynjsj fxnrjxrt rfmjwnifx ifsefx, fxí
ij jxufifx htrt ij hfxhfgjq rjszit, vzj mfd js xz uzjgqt vznjs qtx wjunvzj
d xfhzif utw jxywjrt; ij efufyjfitwjx st inlt sfif, vzj jx zs oznhnt qtx
vzj ynjsj rzñnitx; ujwt snslzsf ij qfx htxfx wjkjwnifx sn tywfx rzhmfx vzj
mj ijofit ij wjkjwnw mf ij mfhjw ráx rjrtwfgqjx jxyfx gtifx, xnst qfx vzj
nrflnst vzj mfwá js jqqfx jq ijxujhmfit Gfxnqnt. Jx jxyj Gfxnqnt zs eflfq
ajhnst ijq rjxrt qzlfw ij Vznyjwnf, jq hzfq yjsíf xz hfxf ufwji d rjint ij
qf ij qtx ufiwjx ij Vznyjwnf, ij itsij ytró thfxnós jq frtw ij wjstafw fq
rzsit qtx df tqanifitx frtwjx ij Uíwfrt d Ynxgj, utwvzj Gfxnqnt xj jsfrtwó
ij Vznyjwnf ijxij xzx ynjwstx d uwnrjwtx fñtx, d jqqf kzj htwwjxutsinjsit f
xz ijxjt hts rnq mtsjxytx kfatwjx, yfsyt, vzj xj htsyfgfs utw
jsywjyjsnrnjsyt js jq uzjgqt qtx frtwjx ij qtx itx snñtx Gfxnqnt d
Vznyjwnf. Kzj hwjhnjsit qf jifi, d fhtwió jq ufiwj ij Vznyjwnf ij jxytwgfw
f Gfxnqnt qf twinsfwnf jsywfif vzj js xz hfxf yjsíf; d, utw vznyfwxj ij
fsifw wjhjqtxt d qqjst ij xtxujhmfx, twijsó ij hfxfw f xz mnof hts jq wnht
Hfrfhmt, st ufwjhnésitqj xjw gnjs hfxfwqf hts Gfxnqnt, vzj st yjsíf yfsytx
gnjsjx ij ktwyzsf htrt ij sfyzwfqjef; uzjx xn af f ijhnw qfx ajwifijx xns
nsaninf, éq jx jq ráx álnq rfshjgt vzj htsthjrtx: lwfs ynwfitw ij gfwwf,
qzhmfitw jxywjrfit d lwfs ozlfitw ij ujqtyf; htwwj htrt zs lfrt, xfqyf ráx
vzj zsf hfgwf d gnwqf f qtx gtqtx htrt utw jshfsyfrjsyt; hfsyf htrt zsf
hfqfsiwnf, d ythf zsf lznyfwwf, vzj qf mfhj mfgqfw, d, xtgwj ytit, ozjlf
zsf jxufif htrt jq ráx unsyfit.

-Utw jxf xtqf lwfhnf -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, rjwjhíf jxj rfshjgt
st xóqt hfxfwxj hts qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf, xnst hts qf rjxrf wjnsf Lnsjgwf,
xn kzjwf mtd anaf, f ujxfw ij Qfsefwtyj d ij ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj jxytwgfwqt
vznxnjwfs.

-¡F rn rzojw hts jxt! -inot Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj mfxyf jsytshjx mfgíf nit
hfqqfsit d jxhzhmfsit-, qf hzfq st vznjwj xnst vzj hfif zst hfxj hts xz
nlzfq, fyjsnésitxj fq wjkwás vzj inhjs "hfif tajof hts xz ufwjof". Qt vzj
dt vznxnjwf jx vzj jxj gzjs Gfxnqnt, vzj df rj qj atd fknhntsfsit, xj
hfxfwf hts jxf xjñtwf Vznyjwnf; vzj gzjs xnlqt mfdfs d gzjs utxt, ngf f
ijhnw fq wjaéx, qtx vzj jxytwgfs vzj xj hfxjs qtx vzj gnjs xj vznjwjs.

-Xn ytitx qtx vzj gnjs xj vznjwjs xj mzgnjxjs ij hfxfw -inot its Vznotyj-,
vznyfwífxj qf jqjhnós d ozwninhnós f qtx ufiwjx ij hfxfw xzx mnotx hts
vznjs d hzfsit ijgjs; d xn f qf atqzsyfi ij qfx mnofx vzjifxj jxhtljw qtx
rfwnitx, yfq mfgwíf vzj jxhtlnjxj fq hwnfit ij xz ufiwj, d yfq fq vzj ant
ufxfw utw qf hfqqj, f xz ufwjhjw, gnefwwt d jsytsfit, fzsvzj kzjxj zs
ijxgfwfyfit jxufifhmís; vzj jq frtw d qf fknhnós hts kfhnqnifi hnjlfs qtx
totx ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt, yfs sjhjxfwntx ufwf jxhtljw jxyfit, d jq ijq
rfywnrtsnt jxyá rzd f ujqnlwt ij jwwfwxj, d jx rjsjxyjw lwfs ynjsyt d
ufwynhzqfw kfatw ijq hnjqt ufwf fhjwyfwqj. Vznjwj mfhjw zst zs anfoj qfwlt,
d xn jx uwzijsyj, fsyjx ij utsjwxj js hfrnst gzxhf fqlzsf htrufñíf xjlzwf d
fufhngqj hts vznjs fhtrufñfwxj; uzjx, ¿utw vzé st mfwá qt rjxrt jq vzj mf
ij hfrnsfw ytif qf anif, mfxyf jq ufwfijwt ij qf rzjwyj, d ráx xn qf
htrufñíf qj mf ij fhtrufñfw js qf hfrf, js qf rjxf d js ytifx ufwyjx, htrt
jx qf ij qf rzojw hts xz rfwnit? Qf ij qf uwtunf rzojw st jx rjwhfizwíf vzj
zsf aje htruwfif xj azjqaj, t xj ywzjhf t hfrgnf, utwvzj jx fhhnijsyj
nsxjufwfgqj, vzj izwf qt vzj izwf qf anif: jx zs qfet vzj xn zsf aje qj
jhmánx fq hzjqqt, xj azjqaj js jq szit ltwinfst, vzj xn st qj htwyf qf
lzfifñf ij qf rzjwyj, st mfd ijxfyfwqj. Rzhmfx ráx htxfx uzinjwf ijhnw js
jxyf rfyjwnf, xn st qt jxytwgfwf jq ijxjt vzj yjslt ij xfgjw xn qj vzjif
ráx vzj ijhnw fq xjñtw qnhjshnfit fhjwhf ij qf mnxytwnf ij Gfxnqnt.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq jxyzinfsyj gfhmnqqjw, t qnhjshnfit, htrt qj qqfró its
Vznotyj, vzj:

-Ij ytit st rj vzjif ráx vzj ijhnw xnst vzj ijxij jq uzsyt vzj Gfxnqnt xzut
vzj qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf xj hfxfgf hts Hfrfhmt jq wnht, szshf ráx qj mfs
anxyt wjíw sn mfgqfw wfeós htshjwyfif, d xnjruwj fsif ujsxfynat d ywnxyj,
mfgqfsit jsywj xí rnxrt, hts vzj if hnjwyfx d hqfwfx xjñfqjx ij vzj xj qj
mf azjqyt jq oznhnt: htrj utht d izjwrj utht, d qt vzj htrj xts kwzyfx, d
js qt vzj izjwrj, xn izjwrj, jx js jq hfrut, xtgwj qf izwf ynjwwf, htrt
fsnrfq gwzyt; rnwf ij hzfsit js hzfsit fq hnjqt, d tywfx ajhjx hqfaf qtx
totx js qf ynjwwf, hts yfq jrgjqjxfrnjsyt, vzj st ufwjhj xnst jxyfyzf
ajxynif vzj jq fnwj qj rzjaj qf wtuf. Js kns, éq if yfqjx rzjxywfx ij yjsjw
fufxntsfit jq htwfeós, vzj yjrjrtx ytitx qtx vzj qj htsthjrtx vzj jq ifw jq
xí rfñfsf qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf mf ij xjw qf xjsyjshnf ij xz rzjwyj.

-Intx qt mfwá rjotw -inot Xfshmt-; vzj Intx, vzj if qf qqflf, if qf
rjinhnsf; sfinj xfgj qt vzj jxyá utw ajsnw: ij fvzí f rfñfsf rzhmfx mtwfx
mfd, d js zsf, d fzs js zs rtrjsyt, xj hfj qf hfxf; dt mj anxyt qqtajw d
mfhjw xtq, ytit f zs rjxrt uzsyt; yfq xj fhzjxyf xfst qf sthmj, vzj st xj
uzjij rtajw tywt iíf. D iílfsrj, ¿utw ajsyzwf mfgwá vznjs xj fqfgj vzj
ynjsj jhmfit zs hqfat f qf wtifof ij qf Ktwyzsf? St, utw hnjwyt; d jsywj jq
xí d jq st ij qf rzojw st rj fywjajwíf dt f utsjw zsf uzsyf ij fqknqjw,
utwvzj st hfgwíf. Ijsrj f rí vzj Vznyjwnf vznjwf ij gzjs htwfeós d ij gzjsf
atqzsyfi f Gfxnqnt, vzj dt qj ifwé f éq zs xfht ij gzjsf ajsyzwf: vzj jq
frtw, xjlús dt mj tíit ijhnw, rnwf hts zstx fsytotx vzj mfhjs ufwjhjw twt
fq htgwj, f qf utgwjef wnvzjef, d f qfx qflfñfx ujwqfx.

-¿Fiósij afx f ufwfw, Xfshmt, vzj xjfx rfqinyt? -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj
hzfsit htrnjsefx f jsxfwyfw wjkwfsjx d hzjsytx, st yj uzjij jxujwfw xnst jq
rjxrt Ozifx, vzj yj qqjaj. Inrj, fsnrfq, ¿vzé xfgjx yú ij hqfatx, sn ij
wtifofx, sn ij tywf htxf snslzsf?

-¡Tm! Uzjx xn st rj jsynjsijs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, st jx rfwfanqqf vzj rnx
xjsyjshnfx xjfs yjsnifx utw inxufwfyjx. Ujwt st nrutwyf: dt rj jsynjsit, d
xé vzj st mj inhmt rzhmfx sjhjifijx js qt vzj mj inhmt; xnst vzj azjxf
rjwhji, xjñtw rít, xnjruwj jx kwnxhfq ij rnx inhmtx, d fzs ij rnx mjhmtx.

-Knxhfq mfx ij ijhnw -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj st kwnxhfq, uwjafwnhfitw ijq
gzjs qjslzfoj, vzj Intx yj htskzsif.

-St xj fuzsyj azjxywf rjwhji htsrnlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, uzjx xfgj vzj st
rj mj hwnfit js qf Htwyj, sn mj jxyzinfit js Xfqfrfshf, ufwf xfgjw xn fñfit
t vznyt fqlzsf qjywf f rnx athfgqtx. Xí, vzj, ¡aáqlfrj Intx!, st mfd ufwf
vzé tgqnlfw fq xfdflzéx f vzj mfgqj htrt jq ytqjifst, d ytqjifstx uzjij
mfgjw vzj st qfx htwyjs js jq fnwj js jxyt ijq mfgqfw utqnit.

-Fxí jx -inot jq qnhjshnfit-, utwvzj st uzjijs mfgqfw yfs gnjs qtx vzj xj
hwífs js qfx Yjsjwífx d js Ethtitajw htrt qtx vzj xj ufxjfs hfxn ytit jq
iíf utw jq hqfzxywt ij qf Nlqjxnf Rfdtw, d ytitx xts ytqjifstx. Jq qjslzfoj
uzwt, jq uwtunt, jq jqjlfsyj d hqfwt, jxyá js qtx inxhwjytx htwyjxfstx,
fzsvzj mfdfs sfhnit js Rfofqfmtsif: inoj inxhwjytx utwvzj mfd rzhmtx vzj st
qt xts, d qf inxhwjhnós jx qf lwfráynhf ijq gzjs qjslzfoj, vzj xj fhtrufñf
hts jq zxt. Dt, xjñtwjx, utw rnx ujhfitx, mj jxyzinfit Hástsjx js
Xfqfrfshf, d uíhtrj fqlús yfsyt ij ijhnw rn wfeós hts ufqfgwfx hqfwfx,
qqfsfx d xnlsnknhfsyjx.

-Xn st tx unháwjijx ráx ij xfgjw ráx rjsjfw qfx sjlwfx vzj qqjaánx vzj qf
qjslzf -inot jq tywt jxyzinfsyj-, atx qqjaáwfijx jq uwnrjwt js qnhjshnfx,
htrt qqjafxyjx htqf.

-Rnwfi, gfhmnqqjw -wjxutsinó jq qnhjshnfit-: atx jxyánx js qf ráx jwwfif
tunsnós ijq rzsit fhjwhf ij qf ijxywjef ij qf jxufif, yjsnésitqf utw afsf.

-Ufwf rí st jx tunsnós, xnst ajwifi fxjsyfif -wjuqnhó Htwhmzjqt-; d xn
vzjwénx vzj tx qt rzjxywj hts qf jcujwnjshnf, jxufifx ywfénx, htrtinifi
mfd, dt uzqxtx d kzjwefx yjslt, vzj fhtrufñfifx ij rn ásnrt, vzj st jx
utht, tx mfwás htskjxfw vzj dt st rj jslfñt. Fujftx, d zxfi ij azjxywt
htruáx ij unjx, ij azjxywtx híwhzqtx d azjxywtx áslzqtx d hnjshnf; vzj dt
jxujwt ij mfhjwtx ajw jxywjqqfx f rjintiíf hts rn ijxywjef rtijwsf d efknf,
js vznjs jxujwt, ijxuzéx ij Intx, vzj jxyá utw sfhjw mtrgwj vzj rj mflf
atqajw qfx jxufqifx, d vzj st qj mfd js jq rzsit f vznjs dt st qj mflf
ujwijw ynjwwf.

-Js jxt ij atqajw, t st, qfx jxufqifx st rj rjyt -wjuqnht jq injxywt-;
fzsvzj utiwíf xjw vzj js qf ufwyj itsij qf aje uwnrjwf hqfaáxjijx jq unj,
fqqí tx fgwnjxjs qf xjuzqyzwf: vznjwt ijhnw vzj fqqí vzjiáxjijx rzjwyt utw
qf ijxuwjhnfif ijxywjef.

-Fmtwf xj ajwá -wjxutsinó Htwhmzjqt.

D, fujásitxj hts lwfs uwjxyjef ij xz ozrjsyt, ynwó hts kzwnf ij zsf ij qfx
jxufifx vzj qqjafgf jq qnhjshnfit js jq xzdt.

-St mf ij xjw fxí -inot f jxyj nsxyfsyj its Vznotyj-, vzj dt vznjwt xjw jq
rfjxywt ijxyf jxlwnrf, d jq ozje ijxyf rzhmfx ajhjx st fajwnlzfif hzjxynós.

D, fujásitxj ij Wthnsfsyj d fxnjsit ij xz qfsef, xj uzxt js qf rnyfi ijq
hfrnst, f ynjrut vzj df jq qnhjshnfit, hts ljsynq itsfnwj ij hzjwut d
htruáx ij unjx, xj ngf htsywf Htwhmzjqt, vzj htsywf éq xj anst, qfsefsit,
htrt ijhnwxj xzjqj, kzjlt utw qtx totx. Qtx tywtx itx qfgwfitwjx ijq
fhtrufñfrnjsyt, xns fujfwxj ij xzx utqqnsfx, xnwanjwts ij fxujyfytwjx js qf
rtwyfq ywfljinf. Qfx hzhmnqqfifx, jxythfifx, fqyngfotx, wjajxjx d rfsitgqjx
vzj ynwfgf Htwhmzjqt jwfs xns súrjwt, ráx jxujxfx vzj mílfit d ráx rjszifx
vzj lwfsnet. Fwwjrjyíf htrt zs qjós nwwnyfit, ujwt xfqífqj fq jshzjsywt zs
yfufgthf ij qf efufynqqf ij qf jxufif ijq qnhjshnfit, vzj js rnyfi ij xz
kzwnf qj ijyjsíf, d xj qf mfhíf gjxfw htrt xn kzjwf wjqnvznf, fzsvzj st hts
yfsyf ijathnós htrt qfx wjqnvznfx ijgjs d xzjqjs gjxfwxj.

Knsfqrjsyj, jq qnhjshnfit qj htsyó f jxythfifx ytitx qtx gtytsjx ij zsf
rjinf xtyfsnqqf vzj ywfíf ajxynif, mfhnésitqj ynwfx qtx kfqifrjsytx, htrt
htqfx ij uzqut; ijwwngóqj jq xtrgwjwt itx ajhjx, d hfsxóqj ij rfsjwf vzj ij
ijxujhmt, hóqjwf d wfgnf fxnó qf jxufif utw qf jruzñfizwf, d fwwtoóqf utw
jq fnwj hts yfsyf kzjwef, vzj zst ij qtx qfgwfitwjx fxnxyjsyjx, vzj jwf
jxhwngfst, vzj kzj utw jqqf, int ijxuzéx utw yjxynrtsnt vzj qf fqtsló ij xí
hfxn ywjx hzfwytx ij qjlzf; jq hzfq yjxynrtsnt xnwaj d mf xjwanit ufwf vzj
xj htstehf d ajf hts ytif ajwifi hórt qf kzjwef jx ajshnif ijq fwyj.

Xjsyóxj hfsxfit Htwhmzjqt, d qqjlásitxj f éq Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Ríf kj, xjñtw gfhmnqqjw, xn azjxf rjwhji ytrf rn htsxjot, ij fvzí fijqfsyj
st mf ij ijxfknfw f sfinj f jxlwnrnw, xnst f qzhmfw t f ynwfw qf gfwwf,
uzjx ynjsj jifi d kzjwefx ufwf jqqt; vzj ijxytx f vznjs qqfrfs injxywtx mj
tíit ijhnw vzj rjyjs zsf uzsyf ij zsf jxufif utw jq tot ij zsf flzof.

-Dt rj htsyjsyt -wjxutsinó Htwhmzjqt- ij mfgjw hfíit ij rn gzwwf, d ij vzj
rj mfdf rtxywfit qf jcujwnjshnf qf ajwifi, ij vznjs yfs qjotx jxyfgf.

D, qjafsyásitxj, fgwfeó fq qnhjshnfit, d vzjifwts ráx frnltx vzj ij fsyjx,
d st vzjwnjsit jxujwfw fq jxhwngfst, vzj mfgíf nit utw qf jxufif, utw
ufwjhjwqj vzj yfwifwíf rzhmt; d fxí, ijyjwrnsfwts xjlznw, utw qqjlfw
yjruwfst f qf fqijf ij Vznyjwnf, ij itsij ytitx jwfs.

Js qt vzj kfqyfgf ijq hfrnst, qjx kzj htsyfsit jq qnhjshnfit qfx
jchjqjshnfx ij qf jxufif, hts yfsyfx wfetsjx ijrtxywfynafx d hts yfsyfx
knlzwfx d ijrtxywfhntsjx rfyjráynhfx, vzj ytitx vzjifwts jsyjwfitx ij qf
gtsifi ij qf hnjshnf, d Htwhmzjqt wjizhnit ij xz ujwynsfhnf.

Jwf fsthmjhnit, ujwt fsyjx vzj qqjlfxjs qjx ufwjhnó f ytitx vzj jxyfgf
ijqfsyj ijq uzjgqt zs hnjqt qqjst ij nszrjwfgqjx d wjxuqfsijhnjsyjx
jxywjqqfx. Tdjwts, fxnrnxrt, htskzxtx d xzfajx xtsnitx ij inajwxtx
nsxywzrjsytx, htrt ij kqfzyfx, yfrgtwnstx, xfqyjwntx, fqgtlzjx, ufsijwtx d
xtsfofx; d hzfsit qqjlfwts hjwhf anjwts vzj qtx áwgtqjx ij zsf jswfrfif,
vzj f rfst mfgífs uzjxyt f qf jsywfif ijq uzjgqt, jxyfgfs ytitx qqjstx ij
qzrnsfwnfx, f vznjs st tkjsiíf jq anjsyt, vzj jsytshjx st xtuqfgf xnst yfs
rfsxt vzj st yjsíf kzjwef ufwf rtajw qfx mtofx ij qtx áwgtqjx. Qtx rúxnhtx
jwfs qtx wjlthnofitwjx ij qf gtif, vzj js inajwxfx hzfiwnqqfx utw fvzjq
flwfifgqj xnynt fsifgfs, zstx gfnqfsit, d tywtx hfsyfsit, d tywtx ythfsit
qf inajwxnifi ij qtx wjkjwnitx nsxywzrjsytx. Js jkjhyt, st ufwjhíf xnst vzj
utw ytit fvzjq uwfit fsifgf htwwnjsit qf fqjlwíf d xfqyfsit jq htsyjsyt.

Tywtx rzhmtx fsifgfs thzufitx js qjafsyfw fsifrntx, ij itsij hts htrtinifi
uzinjxjs ajw tywt iíf qfx wjuwjxjsyfhntsjx d ifsefx vzj xj mfgífs ij mfhjw
js fvzjq qzlfw ijinhfit ufwf xtqjsnefw qfx gtifx ijq wnht Hfrfhmt d qfx
jcjvznfx ij Gfxnqnt. St vznxt jsywfw js jq qzlfw its Vznotyj, fzsvzj xj qt
uninjwts fxí jq qfgwfitw htrt jq gfhmnqqjw; ujwt éq int utw inxhzquf,
gfxyfsyíxnrf f xz ufwjhjw, xjw htxyzrgwj ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx itwrnw
utw qtx hfrutx d kqtwjxyfx fsyjx vzj js qtx utgqfitx, fzsvzj kzjxj ijgfot
ij itwfitx yjhmtx; d hts jxyt, xj ijxanó zs utht ijq hfrnst, gnjs htsywf qf
atqzsyfi ij Xfshmt, ansnésitxjqj f qf rjrtwnf jq gzjs fqtofrnjsyt vzj mfgíf
yjsnit js jq hfxynqqt t hfxf ij its Injlt.





Hfuíyzqt CC. Itsij xj hzjsyfs qfx gtifx ij Hfrfhmt jq wnht, hts jq xzhjxt
ij Gfxnqnt jq utgwj


Fujsfx qf gqfshf fzwtwf mfgíf ifit qzlfw f vzj jq qzhnjsyj Kjgt, hts jq
fwitw ij xzx hfqnjsyjx wfdtx, qfx qívznifx ujwqfx ij xzx hfgjqqtx ij twt
jsozlfxj, hzfsit its Vznotyj, xfhzinjsit qf ujwjef ij xzx rnjrgwtx, xj uzxt
js unj d qqfró f xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt, vzj fús ytifaíf wtshfgf; qt hzfq anxyt
utw its Vznotyj, fsyjx vzj qj ijxujwyfxj, qj inot:

-¡Tm yú, gnjsfajsyzwfit xtgwj hzfsytx anajs xtgwj qf mfe ij qf ynjwwf, uzjx
xns yjsjw nsaninf sn xjw nsaninfit, izjwrjx hts xtxjlfit jxuíwnyz, sn yj
ujwxnlzjs jshfsyfitwjx, sn xtgwjxfqyfs jshfsyfrjsytx! Izjwrj, inlt tywf
aje, d qt inwé tywfx hnjsyt, xns vzj yj yjslfs js htsynsf anlnqnf hjqtx ij
yz ifrf, sn yj ijxajqjs ujsxfrnjsytx ij uflfw ijzifx vzj ijgfx, sn ij qt
vzj mfx ij mfhjw ufwf htrjw tywt iíf yú d yz ujvzjñf d fslzxynfif kfrnqnf.
Sn qf frgnhnós yj nsvznjyf, sn qf utruf afsf ijq rzsit yj kfynlf, uzjx qtx
qírnyjx ij yzx ijxjtx st xj jxynjsijs f ráx vzj f ujsxfw yz ozrjsyt; vzj jq
ij yz ujwxtsf xtgwj rnx mtrgwtx qj ynjsjx uzjxyt: htsywfujxt d hfwlf vzj
uzxt qf sfyzwfqjef d qf htxyzrgwj f qtx xjñtwjx. Izjwrj jq hwnfit, d jxyá
ajqfsit jq xjñtw, ujsxfsit hórt qj mf ij xzxyjsyfw, rjotwfw d mfhjw
rjwhjijx. Qf htsltof ij ajw vzj jq hnjqt xj mfhj ij gwtshj xns fhzinw f qf
ynjwwf hts jq htsajsnjsyj wthít st fkqnlj fq hwnfit, xnst fq xjñtw, vzj mf
ij xzxyjsyfw js qf jxyjwnqnifi d mfrgwj fq vzj qj xnwanó js qf kjwynqnifi d
fgzsifshnf.

F ytit jxyt st wjxutsinó Xfshmt, utwvzj itwríf, sn ijxujwyfwf yfs uwjxyt xn
its Vznotyj hts jq hzjsyt ij qf qfsef st qj mnhnjwj atqajw js xí. Ijxujwyó,
js kns, xtñtqnjsyt d ujwjetxt, d, atqanjsit jq wtxywt f ytifx ufwyjx, inot:

-Ij qf ufwyj ijxyf jswfrfif, xn st rj jslfñt, xfqj zs yzkt d tqtw mfwyt ráx
ij ytwwjestx fxfitx vzj ij ozshtx d ytrnqqtx: gtifx vzj utw yfqjx tqtwjx
htrnjsefs, ufwf rn xfsynlzfif vzj ijgjs ij xjw fgzsifsyjx d ljsjwtxfx.

-Fhfgf, lqtyós -inot its Vznotyj-; ajs, nwjrtx f ajw jxytx ijxutxtwntx, utw
ajw qt vzj mfhj jq ijxijñfit Gfxnqnt.

-Rfx vzj mflf qt vzj vznxnjwj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: st kzjwf éq utgwj d
hfxáwfxj hts Vznyjwnf. ¿St mfd ráx xnst yjsjw zs hzfwyt d vzjwjw fqefwxj
utw qfx szgjx? F qf kj, xjñtw, dt xtd ij ufwjhjw vzj jq utgwj ijgj ij
htsyjsyfwxj hts qt vzj mfqqfwj, d st ujinw htyzkfx js jq ltqkt. Dt futxyfwé
zs gwfet vzj uzjij Hfrfhmt jsatqajw js wjfqjx f Gfxnqnt; d xn jxyt jx fxí,
htrt ijgj ij xjw, gnjs gtgf kzjwf Vznyjwnf js ijxjhmfw qfx lfqfx d qfx
otdfx vzj qj ijgj ij mfgjw ifit, d qj uzjij ifw Hfrfhmt, utw jxhtljw jq
ynwfw ij qf gfwwf d jq ozlfw ij qf sjlwf ij Gfxnqnt. Xtgwj zs gzjs ynwt ij
gfwwf t xtgwj zsf ljsynq ywjyf ij jxufif st ifs zs hzfwynqqt ij anst js qf
yfgjwsf. Mfgnqnifijx d lwfhnfx vzj st xts ajsingqjx, rfx vzj qfx yjslf jq
htsij Inwqtx; ujwt, hzfsit qfx yfqjx lwfhnfx hfjs xtgwj vznjs ynjsj gzjs
insjwt, yfq xjf rn anif htrt jqqfx ufwjhjs. Xtgwj zs gzjs hnrnjsyt xj uzjij
qjafsyfw zs gzjs jinknhnt, d jq rjotw hnrnjsyt d efsof ijq rzsit jx jq
insjwt.

-Utw vznjs Intx jx, Xfshmt -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, vzj htshqzdfx
hts yz fwjslf; vzj yjslt ufwf rí vzj xn yj ijofxjs xjlznw js qfx vzj f hfif
ufxt htrnjsefx, st yj vzjifwíf ynjrut ufwf htrjw sn ufwf itwrnw, vzj ytit
qj lfxyfwífx js mfgqfw.

-Xn azjxywf rjwhji yzanjwf gzjsf rjrtwnf -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, ijgnéwfxj
fhtwifw ij qtx hfuíyzqtx ij szjxywt htshnjwyt fsyjx vzj jxyf úqynrf aje
xfqnéxjrtx ij hfxf: zst ijqqtx kzj vzj rj mfgíf ij ijofw mfgqfw ytit
fvzjqqt vzj vznxnjxj, hts vzj st kzjxj htsywf jq uwóonrt sn htsywf qf
fzytwnifi ij azjxf rjwhji; d mfxyf fltwf rj ufwjhj vzj st mj htsywfajsnit
htsywf jq yfq hfuíyzqt.

-Dt st rj fhzjwit, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ijq yfq hfuíyzqt; d,
uzjxyt vzj xjf fxí, vznjwt vzj hfqqjx d ajslfx, vzj df qtx nsxywzrjsytx vzj
fsthmj tírtx azjqajs f fqjlwfw qtx afqqjx, d xns izif qtx ijxutxtwntx xj
hjqjgwfwás js jq kwjxhtw ij qf rfñfsf, d st js jq hfqtw ij qf yfwij.

Mnet Xfshmt qt vzj xz xjñtw qj rfsifgf, d, utsnjsit qf xnqqf f Wthnsfsyj d
qf fqgfwif fq wzhnt, xzgnjwts qtx itx, d ufxt fsyj ufxt xj kzjwts jsywfsit
utw qf jswfrfif.

Qt uwnrjwt vzj xj qj tkwjhnó f qf anxyf ij Xfshmt kzj, jxujyfit js zs
fxfitw ij zs tqrt jsyjwt, zs jsyjwt stanqqt; d js jq kzjlt itsij xj mfgíf
ij fxfw fwiíf zs rjinfst rtsyj ij qjñf, d xjnx tqqfx vzj fqwjijitw ij qf
mtlzjwf jxyfgfs st xj mfgífs mjhmt js qf htrús yzwvzjxf ij qfx ijráx tqqfx,
utwvzj jwfs xjnx rjinfx ynsfofx, vzj hfif zsf hfgíf zs wfxywt ij hfwsj: fxí
jrgjgífs d jshjwwfgfs js xí hfwsjwtx jsyjwtx, xns jhmfwxj ij ajw, htrt xn
kzjwfs ufqtrnstx; qfx qnjgwjx df xns ujqqjot d qfx lfqqnsfx xns uqzrf vzj
jxyfgfs htqlfifx utw qtx áwgtqjx ufwf xjuzqyfwqfx js qfx tqqfx st yjsífs
súrjwt; qtx uáofwtx d hfef ij inajwxtx lésjwtx jwfs nsknsnytx, htqlfitx ij
qtx áwgtqjx ufwf vzj jq fnwj qtx jskwnfxj.

Htsyó Xfshmt ráx ij xjxjsyf efvzjx ij ráx ij f itx fwwtgfx hfif zst, d
ytitx qqjstx, xjlús ijxuzéx ufwjhnó, ij ljsjwtxtx anstx; fxí mfgíf wnrjwtx
ij ufs gqfsvzíxnrt, htrt qtx xzjqj mfgjw ij rtsytsjx ij ywnlt js qfx jwfx;
qtx vzjxtx, uzjxytx htrt qfiwnqqtx jswjofitx, ktwrfgfs zsf rzwfqqf, d itx
hfqijwfx ij fhjnyj, rfdtwjx vzj qfx ij zs ynsyj, xjwaífs ij kwjíw htxfx ij
rfxf, vzj hts itx afqnjsyjx ufqfx qfx xfhfgfs kwnyfx d qfx efgzqqífs js
tywf hfqijwf ij uwjufwfif rnjq vzj fqqí ozsyt jxyfgf.

Qtx hthnsjwtx d hthnsjwfx ufxfgfs ij hnshzjsyf: ytitx qnruntx, ytitx
inqnljsyjx d ytitx htsyjsytx. Js jq inqfyfit anjsywj ijq stanqqt jxyfgfs
ithj ynjwstx d ujvzjñtx qjhmtsjx, vzj, htxnitx utw jshnrf, xjwaífs ij ifwqj
xfgtw d jsyjwsjhjwqj. Qfx jxujhnfx ij inajwxfx xzjwyjx st ufwjhíf mfgjwqfx
htruwfit utw qngwfx, xnst utw fwwtgfx, d ytifx jxyfgfs ij rfsnknjxyt js zsf
lwfsij fwhf. Knsfqrjsyj, jq fufwfyt ij qf gtif jwf wúxynht, ujwt yfs
fgzsifsyj vzj utiíf xzxyjsyfw f zs joéwhnyt.

Ytit qt rnwfgf Xfshmt Ufsef, d ytit qt htsyjruqfgf, d ij ytit xj
fknhntsfgf: uwnrjwt qj hfzynafwts d wnsinjwts jq ijxjt qfx tqqfx, ij vznés
éq ytrfwf ij gtsíxnrf lfsf zs rjinfst uzhmjwt; qzjlt qj fknhntsfwts qf
atqzsyfi qtx efvzjx; d, úqynrfrjsyj, qfx kwzyfx ij xfwyés, xn jx vzj xj
utiífs qqfrfw xfwyjsjx qfx yfs twtsifx hfqijwfx; d fxí, xns utijwqt xzkwnw
sn xjw js xz rfst mfhjw tywf htxf, xj qqjló f zst ij qtx xtqíhnytx
hthnsjwtx, d, hts htwyjxjx d mfrgwnjsyfx wfetsjx, qj wtló qj ijofxj rtofw
zs rjsiwzlt ij ufs js zsf ij fvzjqqfx tqqfx. F qt vzj jq hthnsjwt
wjxutsinó:

-Mjwrfst, jxyj iíf st jx ij fvzjqqtx xtgwj vznjs ynjsj ozwninhnós qf
mfrgwj, rjwhji fq wnht Hfrfhmt. Fujftx d rnwfi xn mfd utw fmí zs hzhmfwós,
d jxuzrfi zsf lfqqnsf t itx, d gzjs uwtajhmt tx mflfs.

-St ajt snslzst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Jxujwfi -inot jq hthnsjwt-. ¡Ujhfitw ij rí, d vzé rjqnsiwtxt d ufwf utht
ijgénx ij xjw!

D, inhnjsit jxyt, fxnó ij zs hfqijwt, d, jshfoásitqj js zsf ij qfx rjinfx
ynsfofx, xfhó js éq ywjx lfqqnsfx d itx lfsxtx, d inot f Xfshmt:

-Htrji, frnlt, d ijxfdzsftx hts jxyf jxuzrf, js yfsyt vzj xj qqjlf qf mtwf
ijq dfsyfw.

-St yjslt js vzé jhmfwqf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Uzjx qqjaftx -inot jq hthnsjwt- qf hzhmfwf d ytit, vzj qf wnvzjef d jq
htsyjsyt ij Hfrfhmt ytit qt xzuqj.

Js yfsyt, uzjx, vzj jxyt ufxfgf Xfshmt, jxyfgf its Vznotyj rnwfsit hórt,
utw zsf ufwyj ij qf jswfrfif, jsywfgfs mfxyf ithj qfgwfitwjx xtgwj ithj
mjwrtxíxnrfx djlzfx, hts wnhtx d anxytxtx ofjhjx ij hfrut d hts rzhmtx
hfxhfgjqjx js qtx ujywfqjx, d ytitx ajxynitx ij wjlthnot d knjxyfx; qtx
hzfqjx, js htshjwyfit ywtujq, htwwnjwts st zsf, xnst rzhmfx hfwwjwfx utw jq
uwfit, hts wjlthnofif fqlfefwf d lwnyf, inhnjsit:

-¡Anafs Hfrfhmt d Vznyjwnf: éq yfs wnht htrt jqqf mjwrtxf, d jqqf qf ráx
mjwrtxf ijq rzsit!

Tdjsit qt hzfq its Vznotyj, inot jsywj xí:

-Gnjs ufwjhj vzj éxytx st mfs anxyt f rn Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj xn qf
mzgnjwfs anxyt, jqqtx xj kzjwfs f qf rfst js qfx fqfgfsefx ijxyf xz
Vznyjwnf.

Ij fqqí f utht htrjsefwts f jsywfw utw inajwxfx ufwyjx ij qf jswfrfif
rzhmfx d inkjwjsyjx ifsefx, jsywj qfx hzfqjx ajsíf zsf ij jxufifx, ij mfxyf
ajnsyj d hzfywt eflfqjx ij lfqqfwit ufwjhjw d gwít, ytitx ajxynitx ij
ijqlfit d gqfsvzíxnrt qnjset, hts xzx ufñtx ij ythfw, qfgwfitx ij afwnfx
htqtwjx ij knsf xjif; d fq vzj qtx lznfgf, vzj jwf zs qnljwt rfshjgt,
uwjlzsyó zst ij qtx ij qfx djlzfx xn xj mfgíf mjwnit fqlzst ij qtx
ifsefsyjx.

-Utw fmtwf, gjsinyt xjf Intx, st xj mf mjwnit sfinj: ytitx afrtx xfstx.

D qzjlt htrjseó f jswjifwxj hts qtx ijráx htrufñjwtx, hts yfsyfx azjqyfx d
hts yfsyf ijxywjef vzj, fzsvzj its Vznotyj jxyfgf mjhmt f ajw xjrjofsyjx
ifsefx, snslzsf qj mfgíf ufwjhnit yfs gnjs htrt fvzéqqf.

Yfrgnés qj ufwjhnó gnjs tywf vzj jsywó ij itshjqqfx mjwrtxíxnrfx, yfs rtefx
vzj, fq ufwjhjw, snslzsf gfofgf ij hfytwhj sn qqjlfgf f inje d thmt fñtx,
ajxynifx ytifx ij ufqrnqqf ajwij, qtx hfgjqqtx ufwyj ywfsefitx d ufwyj
xzjqytx, ujwt ytitx yfs wzgntx, vzj hts qtx ijq xtq utiífs yjsjw
htrujyjshnf, xtgwj qtx hzfqjx ywfífs lznwsfqifx ij ofernsjx, wtxfx,
frfwfsyt d rfiwjxjqaf htruzjxyfx. Lznágfqfx zs ajsjwfgqj anjot d zsf
fshnfsf rfywtsf, ujwt ráx qnljwtx d xzjqytx vzj xzx fñtx uwtrjyífs.
Mfhífqjx jq xts zsf lfnyf efrtwfsf, d jqqfx, qqjafsit js qtx wtxywtx d js
qtx totx f qf mtsjxynifi d js qtx unjx f qf qnljwjef, xj rtxywfgfs qfx
rjotwjx gfnqfitwfx ijq rzsit.

Ywfx éxyf jsywó tywf ifsef ij fwynknhnt d ij qfx vzj qqfrfs mfgqfifx. Jwf
ij thmt snskfx, wjufwynifx js itx mnqjwfx: ij qf zsf mnqjwf jwf lzíf jq
intx Hzunit, d ij qf tywf, jq Nsyjwéx; fvzéq, fitwsfit ij fqfx, fwht,
fqofgf d xfjyfx; éxyj, ajxynit ij wnhfx d inajwxfx htqtwjx ij twt d xjif.
Qfx snskfx vzj fq Frtw xjlzífs ywfífs f qfx jxufqifx, js ufwlfrnst gqfsht d
qjywfx lwfsijx, jxhwnytx xzx strgwjx: utjxíf jwf jq yíyzqt ij qf uwnrjwf,
jq ij qf xjlzsif inxhwjhnós, jq ij qf yjwhjwf gzjs qnsfoj, jq ij qf hzfwyf
afqjsyíf; ijq rtit rjxrt ajsífs xjñfqfifx qfx vzj fq Nsyjwéx xjlzífs: ijhíf
qngjwfqnifi jq yíyzqt ij qf uwnrjwf, iáinaf jq ij qf xjlzsif, yjxtwt jq ij
qf yjwhjwf d jq ij qf hzfwyf utxjxnós ufhíknhf. Ijqfsyj ij ytitx ajsíf zs
hfxynqqt ij rfijwf, f vznjs ynwfgfs hzfywt xfqafojx, ytitx ajxynitx ij
djiwf d ij háñfrt yjñnit ij ajwij, yfs fq sfyzwfq, vzj utw utht jxufsyfwfs
f Xfshmt. Js qf kwtsyjwf ijq hfxynqqt d js ytifx hzfywt ufwyjx ij xzx
hzfiwtx ywfíf jxhwnyt: hfxynqqt ijq gzjs wjhfyt. Mfhífsqjx jq xts hzfywt
injxywtx yfñjitwjx ij yfrgtwnq d kqfzyf.

Htrjsefgf qf ifsef Hzunit, d, mfgnjsit mjhmt itx rzifsefx, fqefgf qtx totx
d kqjhmfgf jq fwht htsywf zsf itshjqqf vzj xj utsíf jsywj qfx fqrjsfx ijq
hfxynqqt, f qf hzfq ijxyf xzjwyj inot:

   -Dt xtd jq intx utijwtxt
   js jq fnwj d js qf ynjwwf
   d js jq fshmt rfw zsitxt,
   d js hzfsyt jq fgnxrt jshnjwwf
   js xz gáwfywt jxufsytxt.
   Szshf htsthí vzé jx rnjit;
   ytit hzfsyt vznjwt uzjit,
   fzsvzj vznjwf qt nrutxngqj,
   d js ytit qt vzj jx utxngqj
   rfsit, vznyt, utslt d ajit.

Fhfgó qf htuqf, inxufwó zsf kqjhmf utw qt fqyt ijq hfxynqqt d wjynwóxj f
xz uzjxyt. Xfqnó qzjlt jq Nsyjwéx, d mnet tywfx itx rzifsefx; hfqqfwts qtx
yfrgtwnstx, d éq inot:

   -Xtd vznjs uzjij ráx vzj Frtw,
   d jx Frtw jq vzj rj lzíf;
   xtd ij qf jxynwuj rjotw
   vzj jq hnjqt js qf ynjwwf hwíf,
   ráx htsthnif d rfdtw.
   Xtd jq Nsyjwéx, js vznjs
   uthtx xzjqjs tgwfw gnjs,
   d tgwfw xns rí jx lwfs rnqflwt;
   d hzfq xtd yj rj htsxflwt,
   utw xnjruwj ofráx, frés.

Wjynwóxj jq Nsyjwéx, d míetxj fijqfsyj qf Utjxíf; qf hzfq, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw
mjhmt xzx rzifsefx htrt qtx ijráx, uzjxytx qtx totx js qf itshjqqf ijq
hfxynqqt, inot:

   -Js izqhíxnrtx htshjuytx,
   qf izqhíxnrf Utjxíf,
   fqytx, lwfajx d inxhwjytx,
   xjñtwf, jq fqrf yj jsaíf
   jsazjqyf jsywj rnq xtsjytx.
   Xn fhfxt st yj nrutwyzsf
   rn utwkíf, yz ktwyzsf,
   ij tywfx rzhmfx nsaninfif,
   xjwá utw rí qjafsyfif
   xtgwj jq hjwht ij qf qzsf.

Ijxanóxj qf Utjxíf, d ij qf ufwyj ijq Nsyjwéx xfqnó qf Qngjwfqnifi, d,
ijxuzéx ij mjhmfx xzx rzifsefx, inot:

   -Qqfrfs Qngjwfqnifi
   fq ifw vzj jq jxywjrt mzdj
   ij qf uwtinlfqnifi,
   d ijq htsywfwnt, vzj fwlzdj
   yngnf d kqtof atqzsyfi.
   Rfx dt, utw yj jslwfsijhjw,
   ij mtd ráx, uwóinlf mj ij xjw;
   vzj, fzsvzj jx anhnt, jx anhnt mtswfit
   d ij ujhmt jsfrtwfit,
   vzj js jq ifw xj jhmf ij ajw.

Ijxyj rtit xfqnjwts d xj wjynwfwts ytifx qfx itx knlzwfx ij qfx itx
jxhzfiwfx, d hfif zst mnet xzx rzifsefx d inot xzx ajwxtx, fqlzstx
jqjlfsyjx d fqlzstx wniíhzqtx, d xóqt ytró ij rjrtwnf its Vznotyj -vzj qf
yjsíf lwfsij- qtx df wjkjwnitx; d qzjlt xj rjehqfwts ytitx, mfhnjsit d
ijxmfhnjsit qfetx hts ljsynq itsfnwj d ijxjsatqyzwf; d hzfsit ufxfgf jq
Frtw utw ijqfsyj ijq hfxynqqt, inxufwfgf utw fqyt xzx kqjhmfx, ujwt jq
Nsyjwéx vzjgwfgf js éq fqhfshífx itwfifx.

Knsfqrjsyj, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw gfnqfit zs gzjs jxufhnt, jq Nsyjwéx xfhó zs
gtqxós, vzj qj ktwrfgf jq ujqqjot ij zs lwfs lfyt wtrfst, vzj ufwjhíf jxyfw
qqjst ij insjwtx, d, fwwtoásitqj fq hfxynqqt, hts jq ltquj xj ijxjshfofwts
qfx yfgqfx d xj hfdjwts, ijofsit f qf itshjqqf ijxhzgnjwyf d xns ijkjsxf
fqlzsf. Qqjló jq Nsyjwéx hts qfx knlzwfx ij xz afqíf, d, jhmásitqf zsf lwfs
hfijsf ij twt fq hzjqqt, rtxywfwts uwjsijwqf, wjsinwqf d hfzynafwqf; qt
hzfq anxyt utw jq Frtw d xzx afqjitwjx, mnhnjwts fijrás ij vznyáwxjqf; d
ytifx qfx ijrtxywfhntsjx vzj mfhífs jwfs fq xts ij qtx yfrgtwnstx, gfnqfsit
d ifsefsit htshjwyfifrjsyj. Uzxnéwtsqtx js ufe qtx xfqafojx, qtx hzfqjx hts
rzhmf uwjxyjef atqanjwts f fwrfw d f jshfofw qfx yfgqfx ijq hfxynqqt, d qf
itshjqqf xj jshjwwó js éq htrt ij szjat, d hts jxyt xj fhfgó qf ifsef hts
lwfs htsyjsyt ij qtx vzj qf rnwfgfs.

Uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj f zsf ij qfx snskfx vzj vznés qf mfgíf htruzjxyt d
twijsfit. Wjxutsinóqj vzj zs gjsjknhnfit ij fvzjq uzjgqt, vzj yjsíf ljsynq
hfqjywj ufwf xjrjofsyjx nsajshntsjx.

-Dt futxyfwé -inot its Vznotyj- vzj ijgj ij xjw ráx frnlt ij Hfrfhmt vzj ij
Gfxnqnt jq yfq gfhmnqqjw t gjsjknhnfit, d vzj ijgj ij yjsjw ráx ij xfyíwnht
vzj ij aíxujwfx: ¡gnjs mf jshfofit js qf ifsef qfx mfgnqnifijx ij Gfxnqnt d
qfx wnvzjefx ij Hfrfhmt!

Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj qt jxhzhmfgf ytit, inot:

-Jq wjd jx rn lfqqt: f Hfrfhmt rj fyjslt.

-Js kns -inot its Vznotyj-, gnjs xj ufwjhj, Xfshmt, vzj jwjx anqqfst d ij
fvzéqqtx vzj inhjs: "¡Anaf vznjs ajshj!"

-St xé ij qtx vzj xtd -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt gnjs xé vzj szshf ij tqqfx
ij Gfxnqnt xfhfwé dt yfs jqjlfsyj jxuzrf htrt jx jxyf vzj mj xfhfit ij qfx
ij Hfrfhmt.

D jsxjñóqj jq hfqijwt qqjst ij lfsxtx d ij lfqqnsfx, d, fxnjsit ij zsf,
htrjseó f htrjw hts rzhmt itsfnwj d lfsf, d inot:

-¡F qf gfwgf ij qfx mfgnqnifijx ij Gfxnqnt!, vzj yfsyt afqjx hzfsyt ynjsjx,
d yfsyt ynjsjx hzfsyt afqjx. Itx qnsfojx xtqtx mfd js jq rzsit, htrt ijhíf
zsf flüjqf ríf, vzj xts jq yjsjw d jq st yjsjw, fzsvzj jqqf fq ijq yjsjw xj
fyjsíf; d jq iíf ij mtd, rn xjñtw its Vznotyj, fsyjx xj ytrf jq uzqxt fq
mfgjw vzj fq xfgjw: zs fxst hzgnjwyt ij twt ufwjhj rjotw vzj zs hfgfqqt
jsfqgfwifit. Fxí vzj azjqat f ijhnw vzj f Hfrfhmt rj fyjslt, ij hzdfx tqqfx
xts fgzsifsyjx jxuzrfx lfsxtx d lfqqnsfx, qnjgwjx d htsjotx; d ij qfx ij
Gfxnqnt xjwás, xn anjsj f rfst, d fzsvzj st ajslf xnst fq unj, flzfhmnwqj.

-¿Mfx fhfgfit yz fwjslf, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Mfgwéqf fhfgfit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj ajt vzj azjxywf rjwhji wjhngj
ujxfizrgwj hts jqqf; vzj xn jxyt st xj uzxnjwf ij utw rjint, tgwf mfgíf
htwyfif ufwf ywjx iífx.

-Uqjlf f Intx, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj dt yj ajf rzit fsyjx vzj
rj rzjwf.

-Fq ufxt vzj qqjafrtx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, fsyjx vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj rzjwf
jxyfwé dt rfxhfsit gfwwt, d jsytshjx utiwá xjw vzj jxyé yfs rzit vzj st
mfgqj ufqfgwf mfxyf qf kns ijq rzsit, t, utw qt rjstx, mfxyf jq iíf ijq
Oznhnt.

-Fzsvzj jxt fxí xzhjif, ¡tm Xfshmt! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, szshf qqjlfwá
yz xnqjshnt f it mf qqjlfit qt vzj mfx mfgqfit, mfgqfx d ynjsjx ij mfgqfw
js yz anif; d ráx, vzj jxyá rzd uzjxyt js wfeós sfyzwfq vzj uwnrjwt qqjlzj
jq iíf ij rn rzjwyj vzj jq ij qf yzdf; d fxí, ofráx unjsxt ajwyj rzit, sn
fzs hzfsit jxyéx gjgnjsit t izwrnjsit, vzj jx qt vzj uzjit jshfwjhjw.

-F gzjsf kj, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st mfd vzj knfw js qf
ijxhfwsfif, inlt, js qf rzjwyj, qf hzfq yfrgnés htrj htwijwt htrt hfwsjwt;
d f szjxywt hzwf mj tíit ijhnw vzj hts nlzfq unj unxfgf qfx fqyfx ytwwjx ij
qtx wjdjx htrt qfx mzrnqijx hmtefx ij qtx utgwjx. Ynjsj jxyf xjñtwf ráx ij
utijw vzj ij rjqnsiwj: st jx sfif fxvzjwtxf, ij ytit htrj d f ytit mfhj, d
ij ytif xzjwyj ij ljsyjx, jifijx d uwjjrnsjshnfx mnshmj xzx fqktwofx. St jx
xjlfitw vzj izjwrj qfx xnjxyfx, vzj f ytifx mtwfx xnjlf, d htwyf fxí qf
xjhf htrt qf ajwij djwgf; d st ufwjhj vzj rfxhf, xnst vzj jslzqqj d ywflf
hzfsyt xj qj utsj ijqfsyj, utwvzj ynjsj mfrgwj hfsnsf, vzj szshf xj mfwyf;
d, fzsvzj st ynjsj gfwwnlf, if f jsyjsijw vzj jxyá mniwóunhf d xjinjsyf ij
gjgjw xtqfx qfx anifx ij hzfsytx anajs, htrt vznjs xj gjgj zs ofwwt ij flzf
kwíf.

-St ráx, Xfshmt -inot f jxyj uzsyt its Vznotyj-. Yjsyj js gzjsfx, d st yj
ijojx hfjw; vzj js ajwifi vzj qt vzj mfx inhmt ij qf rzjwyj utw yzx
wúxynhtx yéwrnstx jx qt vzj uzinjwf ijhnw zs gzjs uwjinhfitw. Iíltyj,
Xfshmt vzj xn htrt ynjsjx gzjs sfyzwfq d inxhwjhnós, uzinjwfx ytrfw zs
uúqunyt js qf rfst d nwyj utw jxj rzsit uwjinhfsit qnsijefx...

-Gnjs uwjinhf vznjs gnjs anaj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d dt st xé tywfx
ytqtlífx.

-Sn qfx mfx rjsjxyjw -inot its Vznotyj-; ujwt dt st fhfgt ij jsyjsijw sn
fqhfsefw hórt, xnjsit jq uwnshnunt ij qf xfgnizwíf jq yjrtw ij Intx, yú,
vzj yjrjx ráx f zs qflfwyt vzj f Éq, xfgjx yfsyt.

-Ozelzj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw, ij xzx hfgfqqjwífx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d st xj
rjyf js ozelfw ij qtx yjrtwjx t afqjsyífx fojsfx, vzj yfs ljsynq yjrjwtxt
xtd dt ij Intx htrt hfif mnot ij ajhnst; d iéojrj azjxywf rjwhji ijxufgnqfw
jxyf jxuzrf, vzj qt ijráx ytifx xts ufqfgwfx thntxfx, ij vzj stx mfs ij
ujinw hzjsyf js qf tywf anif.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, htrjseó ij szjat f ifw fxfqyt f xz hfqijwt, hts yfs
gzjstx fqnjsytx vzj ijxujwyó qtx ij its Vznotyj, d xns izif qj fdzifwf, xn
st qt nruninjwf qt vzj jx kzjwef xj inlf fijqfsyj.





Hfuíyzqt CCN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzjs qfx gtifx ij Hfrfhmt, hts tywtx lzxytxtx
xzhjxtx


Hzfsit jxyfgfs its Vznotyj d Xfshmt js qfx wfetsjx wjkjwnifx js jq hfuíyzqt
fsyjhjijsyj, xj tdjwts lwfsijx athjx d lwfs wznit, d iágfsqfx d hfzxágfsqj
qtx ij qfx djlzfx, vzj hts qfwlf hfwwjwf d lwnyf ngfs f wjhjgnw f qtx
stantx, vzj, wtijfitx ij rnq lésjwtx ij nsxywzrjsytx d ij nsajshntsjx,
ajsífs fhtrufñfitx ijq hzwf, d ij qf ufwjsyjqf ij jsywfrgtx, d ij ytif qf
ljsyj ráx qzhnif ij qtx qzlfwjx hnwhzsajhnstx, ytitx ajxynitx ij knjxyf. D
htrt Xfshmt ant f qf stanf, inot:

-F gzjsf kj vzj st anjsj ajxynif ij qfgwfitwf, xnst ij lfwwnif ufqfhnjlf.
¡Ufwinje, vzj xjlús inanxt, vzj qfx ufyjsfx vzj mfgíf ij ywfjw xts wnhtx
htwfqjx, d qf ufqrnqqf ajwij ij Hzjshf jx yjwhntujqt ij ywjnsyf ujqtx! ¡D
rtsyfx vzj qf lzfwsnhnós jx ij ynwfx ij qnjset, gqfshf!, ¡atyt f rí vzj jx
ij wfxt!; uzjx, ¡ytrfirj qfx rfstx, fitwsfifx hts xtwynofx ij fefgfhmj!: st
rjiwj dt xn st xts fsnqqtx ij twt, d rzd ij twt, d jrujiwfitx hts ujqwfx
gqfshfx htrt zsf hzfofif, vzj hfif zsf ijgj ij afqjw zs tot ij qf hfwf. ¡Tm
mnijuzyf, d vzé hfgjqqtx; vzj, xn st xts utxynetx, st qtx mj anxyt rfx
qzjsltx sn ráx wzgntx js ytif rn anif! ¡St, xnst utsjiqf yfhmf js jq gwít d
js jq yfqqj, d st qf htrufwénx f zsf ufqrf vzj xj rzjaj hfwlfif ij wfhnrtx
ij iáynqjx, vzj qt rjxrt ufwjhjs qtx inojx vzj ywfj ujsinjsyjx ij qtx
hfgjqqtx d ij qf lfwlfsyf! Ozwt js rn ásnrf vzj jqqf jx zsf hmfufif rtef, d
vzj uzjij ufxfw utw qtx gfshtx ij Kqfsijx.

Wnóxj its Vznotyj ij qfx wúxynhfx fqfgfsefx ij Xfshmt Ufsef; ufwjhnóqj vzj,
kzjwf ij xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, st mfgíf anxyt rzojw ráx mjwrtxf
ofráx. Ajsíf qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf fqlt ijxhtqtwnif, d ijgíf ij xjw ij qf
rfqf sthmj vzj xnjruwj ufxfs qfx stanfx js htrutsjwxj ufwf jq iíf ajsnijwt
ij xzx gtifx. Ígfsxj fhjwhfsit f zs yjfywt vzj f zs qfit ijq uwfit jxyfgf,
fitwsfit ij fqktrgwfx d wfrtx, fitsij xj mfgífs ij mfhjw qtx ijxutxtwntx, d
ij itsij mfgífs ij rnwfw qfx ifsefx d qfx nsajshntsjx; d, f qf xfeós vzj
qqjlfgfs fq uzjxyt, tdjwts f xzx jxufqifx lwfsijx athjx, d zsf vzj ijhíf:

-Jxujwftx zs utht, ljsyj yfs nshtsxnijwfif htrt uwjxzwtxf.

F hzdfx athjx d ufqfgwfx ytitx atqanjwts qf hfgjef, d anjwts vzj qfx ifgf
zs mtrgwj ajxynit, fq ufwjhjw, ij zs xfdt sjlwt, onwtsfit ij hfwrjxí f
qqfrfx. Ajsíf htwtsfit -htrt xj ant qzjlt- hts zsf htwtsf ij kzsjxyt
hnuwéx; js qfx rfstx ywfíf zs gfxyós lwfsij. Js qqjlfsit ráx hjwhf, kzj
htsthnit ij ytitx utw jq lfqqfwit Gfxnqnt, d ytitx jxyzanjwts xzxujsxtx,
jxujwfsit js vzé mfgífs ij ufwfw xzx athjx d xzx ufqfgwfx, yjrnjsit fqlús
rfq xzhjxt ij xz ajsnif js xfeós xjrjofsyj.

Qqjló, js kns, hfsxfit d xns fqnjsyt, d, uzjxyt ijqfsyj ij qtx ijxutxfitx,
mnshfsit jq gfxyós js jq xzjqt, vzj yjsíf jq hzjsyt ij zsf uzsyf ij fhjwt,
rzifif qf htqtw, uzjxytx qtx totx js Vznyjwnf, hts ate ywjrjsyj d wtshf,
jxyfx wfetsjx inot:

-Gnjs xfgjx, ijxhtsthnif Vznyjwnf, vzj htsktwrj f qf xfsyf qjd vzj
uwtkjxfrtx, vzj ananjsit dt, yú st uzjijx ytrfw jxutxt; d ozsyfrjsyj st
nlstwfx vzj, utw jxujwfw dt vzj jq ynjrut d rn inqnljshnf rjotwfxjs qtx
gnjsjx ij rn ktwyzsf, st mj vzjwnit ijofw ij lzfwifw jq ijhtwt vzj f yz
mtswf htsajsíf; ujwt yú, jhmfsit f qfx jxufqifx ytifx qfx tgqnlfhntsjx vzj
ijgjx f rn gzjs ijxjt, vznjwjx mfhjw xjñtw ij qt vzj jx rít f tywt, hzdfx
wnvzjefx qj xnwajs st xóqt ij gzjsf ktwyzsf, xnst ij gtsíxnrf ajsyzwf. D
ufwf vzj qf yjslf htqrfif, d st htrt dt unjsxt vzj qf rjwjhj, xnst htrt xj
qf vznjwjs ifw qtx hnjqtx, dt, utw rnx rfstx, ijxmfwé jq nrutxngqj t jq
nshtsajsnjsyj vzj uzjij jxytwgáwxjqf, vznyásitrj f rí ij utw rjint. ¡Anaf,
anaf jq wnht Hfrfhmt hts qf nslwfyf Vznyjwnf qfwltx d kjqnhjx xnlqtx, d
rzjwf, rzjwf jq utgwj Gfxnqnt, hzdf utgwjef htwyó qfx fqfx ij xz inhmf d qj
uzxt js qf xjuzqyzwf!

D, inhnjsit jxyt, fxnó ijq gfxyós vzj yjsíf mnshfit js jq xzjqt, d,
vzjiásitxj qf rnyfi iéq js qf ynjwwf, rtxywó vzj xjwaíf ij afnsf f zs
rjinfst jxytvzj vzj js éq xj thzqyfgf; d, uzjxyf qf vzj xj utiíf qqfrfw
jruzñfizwf js jq xzjqt, hts qnljwt ijxjskfit d ijyjwrnsfit uwtuóxnyt xj
fwwtoó xtgwj éq, d js zs uzsyt rtxywó qf uzsyf xfslwnjsyf f qfx jxufqifx,
hts qf rnyfi ijq fhjwfif hzhmnqqf, vzjifsit jq ywnxyj gfñfit js xz xfslwj d
yjsinit js jq xzjqt, ij xzx rnxrfx fwrfx ywfxufxfit.

Fhzinjwts qzjlt xzx frnltx f kfatwjhjwqj, htsitqnitx ij xz rnxjwnf d
qfxynrtxf ijxlwfhnf; d, ijofsit its Vznotyj f Wthnsfsyj, fhzinó f
kfatwjhjwqj d qj ytró js xzx gwfetx, d mfqqó vzj fús st mfgíf jxunwfit.
Vznxnéwtsqj xfhfw jq jxytvzj, ujwt jq hzwf, vzj jxyfgf uwjxjsyj, kzj ij
ufwjhjw vzj st xj qj xfhfxjs fsyjx ij htskjxfwqj, utwvzj jq xfháwxjqj d jq
jxunwfw xjwíf ytit f zs ynjrut. Ujwt, atqanjsit zs utht js xí Gfxnqnt, hts
ate itqnjsyj d ijxrfdfif inot:

-Xn vznxnjxjx, hwzjq Vznyjwnf, ifwrj js jxyj úqynrt d ktwetxt ywfshj qf
rfst ij jxutxf, fús ujsxfwíf vzj rn yjrjwnifi yjsiwíf ijxhzquf, uzjx js
jqqf fqhfshé jq gnjs ij xjw yzdt.

Jq hzwf, tdjsit qt hzfq, qj inot vzj fyjsinjxj f qf xfqzi ijq fqrf fsyjx
vzj f qtx lzxytx ijq hzjwut, d vzj uninjxj rzd ij ajwfx f Intx ujwiós ij
xzx ujhfitx d ij xz ijxjxujwfif ijyjwrnsfhnós. F qt hzfq wjuqnhó Gfxnqnt
vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf xj htskjxfwíf xn uwnrjwt Vznyjwnf st qj ifgf qf rfst
ij xjw xz jxutxf: vzj fvzjq htsyjsyt qj fitgfwíf qf atqzsyfi d qj ifwíf
fqnjsyt ufwf htskjxfwxj.

Js tdjsit its Vznotyj qf ujynhnós ijq mjwnit, js fqyfx athjx inot vzj
Gfxnqnt ujiíf zsf htxf rzd ozxyf d uzjxyf js wfeós, d fijráx, rzd mfhjijwf,
d vzj jq xjñtw Hfrfhmt vzjifwíf yfs mtswfit wjhngnjsit f qf xjñtwf Vznyjwnf
anzif ijq afqjwtxt Gfxnqnt htrt xn qf wjhngnjwf ijq qfit ij xz ufiwj:

-Fvzí st mf ij mfgjw ráx ij zs xí, vzj st yjslf tywt jkjhyt vzj jq
uwtszshnfwqj, uzjx jq yáqfrt ij jxyfx gtifx mf ij xjw qf xjuzqyzwf.

Ytit qt tíf Hfrfhmt, d ytit qj yjsíf xzxujsxt d htskzxt, xns xfgjw vzé
mfhjw sn vzé ijhnw; ujwt qfx athjx ij qtx frnltx ij Gfxnqnt kzjwts yfsyfx,
uninésitqj vzj htsxnsynjxj vzj Vznyjwnf qj injxj qf rfst ij jxutxf, utwvzj
xz fqrf st xj ujwinjxj, ufwynjsit ijxjxujwfit ijxyf anif, vzj qj rtanjwts,
d fzs ktwefwts, f ijhnw vzj xn Vznyjwnf vzjwíf iáwxjqf, vzj éq xj
htsyjsyfgf, uzjx ytit jwf inqfyfw utw zs rtrjsyt jq hzruqnrnjsyt ij xzx
ijxjtx.

Qzjlt fhzinjwts ytitx f Vznyjwnf, d zstx hts wzjltx, d tywtx hts qálwnrfx,
d tywtx hts jknhfhjx wfetsjx, qf ujwxzfiífs vzj injxj qf rfst fq utgwj
Gfxnqnt; d jqqf, ráx izwf vzj zs ráwrtq d ráx xjxlf vzj zsf jxyfyzf,
rtxywfgf vzj sn xfgíf sn utiíf, sn vzjwíf wjxutsijw ufqfgwf; sn qf
wjxutsinjwf xn jq hzwf st qf inojwf vzj xj ijyjwrnsfxj uwjxyt js qt vzj
mfgíf ij mfhjw, utwvzj yjsíf Gfxnqnt df jq fqrf js qtx injsyjx, d st ifgf
qzlfw f jxujwfw nswjxtqzyfx ijyjwrnsfhntsjx.

Jsytshjx qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf, xns wjxutsijw ufqfgwf fqlzsf, yzwgfif, fq
ufwjhjw ywnxyj d ujxfwtxf, qqjló itsij Gfxnqnt jxyfgf, df qtx totx azjqytx,
jq fqnjsyt htwyt d fuwjxzwfit, rzwrzwfsit jsywj qtx injsyjx jq strgwj ij
Vznyjwnf, ifsit rzjxywfx ij rtwnw htrt ljsynq, d st htrt hwnxynfst. Qqjló,
js kns, Vznyjwnf, d, uzjxyf ij wtinqqfx, qj uninó qf rfst utw xjñfx, d st
utw ufqfgwfx. Ijxjshfoó qtx totx Gfxnqnt, d, rnwásitqf fyjsyfrjsyj, qj
inot:

-¡Tm Vznyjwnf, vzj mfx ajsnit f xjw unfitxf f ynjrut hzfsit yz unjifi mf ij
xjwanw ij hzhmnqqt vzj rj fhfgj ij vznyfw qf anif, uzjx df st yjslt kzjwefx
ufwf qqjafw qf lqtwnf vzj rj ifx js jxhtljwrj utw yzdt, sn ufwf xzxujsijw
jq itqtw vzj yfs fuwnjxf rj af hzgwnjsit qtx totx hts qf jxufsytxf xtrgwf
ij qf rzjwyj! Qt vzj yj xzuqnht jx, ¡tm kfyfq jxywjqqf ríf!, vzj qf rfst
vzj rj unijx d vznjwjx ifwrj st xjf utw hzruqnrnjsyt, sn ufwf jslfñfwrj ij
szjat, xnst vzj htsknjxjx d inlfx vzj, xns mfhjw kzjwef f yz atqzsyfi, rj
qf jsywjlfx d rj qf ifx htrt f yz qjlíynrt jxutxt; uzjx st jx wfeós vzj js
zs ywfshj htrt éxyj rj jslfñjx, sn zxjx ij knslnrnjsytx hts vznjs yfsyfx
ajwifijx mf ywfyfit htsynlt.

Jsywj jxyfx wfetsjx, xj ijxrfdfgf, ij rtit vzj ytitx qtx uwjxjsyjx ujsxfgfs
vzj hfif ijxrfdt xj mfgíf ij qqjafw jq fqrf htsxnlt. Vznyjwnf, ytif mtsjxyf
d ytif ajwltsetxf, fxnjsit hts xz ijwjhmf rfst qf ij Gfxnqnt, qj inot:

-Snslzsf kzjwef kzjwf gfxyfsyj f ytwhjw rn atqzsyfi; d fxí, hts qf ráx
qngwj vzj yjslt yj itd qf rfst ij qjlíynrf jxutxf, d wjhngt qf yzdf, xn jx
vzj rj qf ifx ij yz qngwj fqgjiwít, xns vzj qf yzwgj sn htsywfxyj qf
hfqfrnifi js vzj yz inxhzwxt fhjqjwfit yj mf uzjxyt.

-Xí itd -wjxutsinó Gfxnqnt-, st yzwgfit sn htskzxt, xnst hts jq hqfwt
jsyjsinrnjsyt vzj jq hnjqt vznxt ifwrj; d fxí, rj itd d rj jsywjlt utw yz
jxutxt.

-D dt utw yz jxutxf -wjxutsinó Vznyjwnf-, fmtwf anafx qfwltx fñtx, fmtwf yj
qqjajs ij rnx gwfetx f qf xjuzqyzwf.

-Ufwf jxyfw yfs mjwnit jxyj rfshjgt -inot f jxyj uzsyt Xfshmt Ufsef-, rzhmt
mfgqf; málfsqj vzj xj ijoj ij wjvznjgwtx d vzj fynjsif f xz fqrf, vzj, f rn
ufwjhjw, ráx qf ynjsj js qf qjslzf vzj js qtx injsyjx.

Jxyfsit, uzjx, fxnitx ij qfx rfstx Gfxnqnt d Vznyjwnf, jq hzwf, ynjwst d
qqtwtxt, qtx jhmó qf gjsinhnós d uninó fq hnjqt injxj gzjs utxt fq fqrf ijq
szjat ijxutxfit; jq hzfq, fxí htrt wjhngnó qf gjsinhnós, hts uwjxyf
qnljwjef xj qjafsyó js unj, d hts st anxyf ijxjsatqyzwf xj xfhó jq jxytvzj,
f vznjs xjwaíf ij afnsf xz hzjwut.

Vzjifwts ytitx qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx firnwfitx, d fqlzstx ijqqtx, ráx xnruqjx
vzj hzwntxtx, js fqyfx athjx, htrjsefwts f ijhnw:

-¡Rnqflwt, rnqflwt!

Ujwt Gfxnqnt wjuqnhó:

-¡St "rnqflwt, rnqflwt", xnst nsizxywnf, nsizxywnf!

Jq hzwf, ijxfyjsyfit d fyósnyt, fhzinó hts frgfx rfstx f yjsyfw qf mjwnif,
d mfqqó vzj qf hzhmnqqf mfgíf ufxfit, st utw qf hfwsj d htxynqqfx ij
Gfxnqnt, xnst utw zs hfñós mzjht ij mnjwwt vzj, qqjst ij xfslwj, js fvzjq
qzlfw gnjs fhtrtifit yjsíf; uwjufwfif qf xfslwj, xjlús ijxuzéx xj xzut, ij
rtit vzj st xj mjqfxj.

Knsfqrjsyj, jq hzwf d Hfrfhmt, hts ytitx qtx ráx hnwhzsxyfsyjx, xj yzanjwts
utw gzwqfitx d jxhfwsnitx. Qf jxutxf st int rzjxywfx ij ujxfwqj ij qf
gzwqf; fsyjx, tdjsit ijhnw vzj fvzjq hfxfrnjsyt, utw mfgjw xnit jslfñtxt,
st mfgíf ij xjw afqjijwt, inot vzj jqqf qj htsknwrfgf ij szjat; ij qt hzfq
htqnlnjwts ytitx vzj ij htsxjsynrnjsyt d xfgnizwíf ij qtx itx xj mfgíf
ywfefit fvzjq hfxt, ij qt vzj vzjió Hfrfhmt d xzx afqjitwjx yfs htwwnitx
vzj wjrnynjwts xz ajslfsef f qfx rfstx, d, ijxjsafnsfsit rzhmfx jxufifx,
fwwjrjynjwts f Gfxnqnt, js hzdt kfatw js zs nsxyfsyj xj ijxjsafnsfwts hfxn
tywfx yfsyfx. D, ytrfsit qf ijqfsyjwf f hfgfqqt its Vznotyj, hts qf qfsef
xtgwj jq gwfet d gnjs hzgnjwyt ij xz jxhzit, xj mfhíf ifw qzlfw ij ytitx.
Xfshmt, f vznjs ofráx uqzlznjwts sn xtqfefwts xjrjofsyjx kjhmzwífx, xj
fhtlnó f qfx ynsfofx, itsij mfgíf xfhfit xz flwfifgqj jxuzrf, ufwjhnésitqj
fvzjq qzlfw htrt xflwfit, vzj mfgíf ij xjw yjsnit js wjxujyt. Its Vznotyj,
f lwfsijx athjx, ijhíf:

-Yjsjtx, xjñtwjx, yjsjtx, vzj st jx wfeós ytrénx ajslfsef ij qtx flwfantx
vzj jq frtw stx mfhj; d fiajwyni vzj jq frtw d qf lzjwwf xts zsf rnxrf
htxf, d fxí htrt js qf lzjwwf jx htxf qíhnyf d fhtxyzrgwfif zxfw ij fwinijx
d jxywfyfljrfx ufwf ajshjw fq jsjrnlt, fxí js qfx htsynjsifx d htrujyjshnfx
frtwtxfx xj ynjsjs utw gzjstx qtx jrgzxyjx d rfwfñfx vzj xj mfhjs ufwf
htsxjlznw jq kns vzj xj ijxjf, htrt st xjfs js rjstxhfgt d ijxmtswf ij qf
htxf frfif. Vznyjwnf jwf ij Gfxnqnt, d Gfxnqnt ij Vznyjwnf, utw ozxyf d
kfatwfgqj inxutxnhnós ij qtx hnjqtx. Hfrfhmt jx wnht, d utiwá htruwfw xz
lzxyt hzfsit, itsij d htrt vznxnjwj. Gfxnqnt st ynjsj ráx ijxyf tajof, d st
xj qf mf ij vznyfw fqlzst, utw utijwtxt vzj xjf; vzj f qtx itx vzj Intx
ozsyf st utiwá xjufwfw jq mtrgwj; d jq vzj qt nsyjsyfwj, uwnrjwt mf ij
ufxfw utw qf uzsyf ijxyf qfsef.

D, js jxyt, qf gqfsinó yfs kzjwyj d yfs injxywfrjsyj, vzj uzxt ufatw js
ytitx qtx vzj st qj htsthífs, d yfs nsyjsxfrjsyj xj knoó js qf nrflnsfhnós
ij Hfrfhmt jq ijxiés ij Vznyjwnf, vzj xj qf gtwwó ij qf rjrtwnf js zs
nsxyfsyj; d fxí, yzanjwts qzlfw hts éq qfx ujwxzfxntsjx ijq hzwf, vzj jwf
afwós uwzijsyj d gnjs nsyjshntsfit, hts qfx hzfqjx vzjió Hfrfhmt d qtx ij
xz ufwhnfqnifi ufhíknhtx d xtxjlfitx; js xjñfq ij qt hzfq atqanjwts qfx
jxufifx f xzx qzlfwjx, hzqufsit ráx f qf kfhnqnifi ij Vznyjwnf vzj f qf
nsizxywnf ij Gfxnqnt; mfhnjsit inxhzwxt Hfrfhmt vzj xn Vznyjwnf vzjwíf gnjs
f Gfxnqnt itshjqqf, yfrgnés qj vznxnjwf hfxfif, d vzj ijgíf ij ifw lwfhnfx
fq hnjqt, ráx utw mfgéwxjqf vznyfit vzj utw mfgéwxjqf ifit.

Htsxtqfit, uzjx, d ufhíknht Hfrfhmt d qtx ij xz rjxsfif, ytitx qtx ij qf ij
Gfxnqnt xj xtxjlfwts, d jq wnht Hfrfhmt, utw rtxywfw vzj st xjsyíf qf
gzwqf, sn qf jxynrfgf js sfif, vznxt vzj qfx knjxyfx ufxfxjs fijqfsyj htrt
xn wjfqrjsyj xj ijxutxfwf; ujwt st vznxnjwts fxnxynw f jqqfx Gfxnqnt sn xz
jxutxf sn xjhzfhjx; d fxí, xj kzjwts f qf fqijf ij Gfxnqnt, vzj yfrgnés qtx
utgwjx anwyztxtx d inxhwjytx ynjsjs vznjs qtx xnlf, mtswj d frufwj, htrt
qtx wnhtx ynjsjs vznjs qtx qnxtsojj d fhtrufñj.

Qqjafwósxj htsxnlt f its Vznotyj, jxynrásitqj utw mtrgwj ij afqtw d ij ujqt
js ujhmt. F xóqt Xfshmt xj qj jxhzwjhnó jq fqrf, utw ajwxj nrutxngnqnyfit
ij flzfwifw qf jxuqésinif htrnif d knjxyfx ij Hfrfhmt, vzj izwfwts mfxyf qf
sthmj; d fxí, fxjsijwfit d ywnxyj, xnlznó f xz xjñtw, vzj hts qf hzfiwnqqf
ij Gfxnqnt ngf, d fxí xj ijoó fywáx qfx tqqfx ij Jlnuyt, fzsvzj qfx qqjafgf
js jq fqrf, hzdf df hfxn htsxzrnif d fhfgfif jxuzrf, vzj js jq hfqijwt
qqjafgf, qj wjuwjxjsyfgf qf lqtwnf d qf fgzsifshnf ijq gnjs vzj ujwiíf; d
fxí, htsltofit d ujsxfynat, fzsvzj xns mfrgwj, xns fujfwxj ijq wzhnt,
xnlznó qfx mzjqqfx ij Wthnsfsyj.





Hfuíyzqt CCNN. Itsij xj if hzjsyf ij qf lwfsij fajsyzwf ij qf hzjaf ij
Rtsyjxnstx, vzj jxyá js jq htwfeós ij qf Rfshmf, f vznjs int kjqnhj hnrf jq
afqjwtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf


Lwfsijx kzjwts d rzhmtx qtx wjlfqtx vzj qtx ijxutxfitx mnhnjwts f its
Vznotyj, tgqnlfitx ij qfx rzjxywfx vzj mfgíf ifit ijkjsinjsit xz hfzxf, d
fq ufw ij qf afqjsyíf qj lwfizfwts qf inxhwjhnós, yjsnésitqj utw zs Hni js
qfx fwrfx d utw zs Hnhjwós js qf jqthzjshnf. Jq gzjs Xfshmt xj wjkthnqó
ywjx iífx f htxyf ij qtx stantx, ij qtx hzfqjx xj xzut vzj st kzj ywfef
htrzsnhfif hts qf mjwrtxf Vznyjwnf jq mjwnwxj knslnifrjsyj, xnst nsizxywnf
ij Gfxnqnt, jxujwfsit ijqqf jq rjxrt xzhjxt vzj xj mfgíf anxyt; gnjs jx
ajwifi vzj htskjxó vzj mfgíf ifit ufwyj ij xz ujsxfrnjsyt f fqlzstx ij xzx
frnltx, ufwf vzj fq ynjrut sjhjxfwnt kfatwjhnjxjs xz nsyjshnós d fgtsfxjs
xz jslfñt.

-St xj uzjijs sn ijgjs qqfrfw jslfñtx -inot its Vznotyj- qtx vzj utsjs qf
rnwf js anwyztxtx knsjx.

D vzj jq ij hfxfwxj qtx jsfrtwfitx jwf jq kns ij ráx jchjqjshnf,
fianwynjsit vzj jq rfdtw htsywfwnt vzj jq frtw ynjsj jx qf mfrgwj d qf
htsynszf sjhjxnifi, utwvzj jq frtw jx ytit fqjlwíf, wjlthnot d htsyjsyt, d
ráx hzfsit jq frfsyj jxyá js utxjxnós ij qf htxf frfif, htsywf vznjs xts
jsjrnltx tuzjxytx d ijhqfwfitx qf sjhjxnifi d qf utgwjef; d vzj ytit jxyt
ijhíf hts nsyjshnós ij vzj xj ijofxj jq xjñtw Gfxnqnt ij jojwhnyfw qfx
mfgnqnifijx vzj xfgj, vzj, fzsvzj qj ifgfs kfrf, st qj ifgfs insjwtx, d vzj
fyjsinjxj f lwfsojfw mfhnjsif utw rjintx qíhnytx j nsizxywntxtx, vzj szshf
kfqyfs f qtx uwzijsyjx d fuqnhfitx.

-Jq utgwj mtswfit, xn jx vzj uzjij xjw mtswfit jq utgwj, ynjsj uwjsif js
yjsjw rzojw mjwrtxf, vzj, hzfsit xj qf vznyfs, qj vznyfs qf mtswf d xj qf
rfyfs. Qf rzojw mjwrtxf d mtswfif, hzdt rfwnit jx utgwj, rjwjhj xjw
htwtsfif hts qfzwjqjx d ufqrfx ij ajshnrnjsyt d ywnzskt. Qf mjwrtxzwf, utw
xí xtqf, fywfj qfx atqzsyfijx ij hzfsytx qf rnwfs d htsthjs, d htrt f
xjñzjqt lzxytxt xj qj fgfyjs qfx álznqfx wjfqjx d qtx uáofwtx fqyfsjwtx;
ujwt xn f qf yfq mjwrtxzwf xj qj ozsyf qf sjhjxnifi d qf jxywjhmjef,
yfrgnés qf jrgnxyjs qtx hzjwatx, qtx rnqfstx d qfx tywfx fajx ij wfunñf; d
qf vzj jxyá f yfsytx jshzjsywtx knwrj gnjs rjwjhj qqfrfwxj htwtsf ij xz
rfwnit. Rnwfi, inxhwjyt Gfxnqnt -fñfinó its Vznotyj-: tunsnós kzj ij st xé
vzé xfgnt vzj st mfgíf js ytit jq rzsit xnst zsf xtqf rzojw gzjsf, d ifgf
utw htsxjot vzj hfif zst ujsxfxj d hwjdjxj vzj fvzjqqf xtqf gzjsf jwf qf
xzdf, d fxí ananwíf htsyjsyt. Dt st xtd hfxfit, sn mfxyf fltwf rj mf ajsnit
js ujsxfrnjsyt xjwqt; d, hts ytit jxyt, rj fywjajwíf f ifw htsxjot fq vzj
rj qt uninjxj ijq rtit vzj mfgíf ij gzxhfw qf rzojw hts vznjs xj vznxnjxj
hfxfw. Qt uwnrjwt, qj fhtsxjofwíf vzj rnwfxj ráx f qf kfrf vzj f qf
mfhnjsif, utwvzj qf gzjsf rzojw st fqhfsef qf gzjsf kfrf xtqfrjsyj hts xjw
gzjsf, xnst hts ufwjhjwqt; vzj rzhmt ráx ifñfs f qfx mtswfx ij qfx rzojwjx
qfx ijxjsatqyzwfx d qngjwyfijx uúgqnhfx vzj qfx rfqifijx xjhwjyfx. Xn ywfjx
gzjsf rzojw f yz hfxf, káhnq htxf xjwíf htsxjwafwqf, d fzs rjotwfwqf, js
fvzjqqf gtsifi; ujwt xn qf ywfjx rfqf, js ywfgfot yj utsiwá jq jsrjsifwqf:
vzj st jx rzd mfhjijwt ufxfw ij zs jxywjrt f tywt. Dt st inlt vzj xjf
nrutxngqj, ujwt yésltqt utw inknhzqytxt.

Tíf ytit jxyt Xfshmt, d inot jsywj xí:

-Jxyj rn frt, hzfsit dt mfgqt htxfx ij rjtqqt d ij xzxyfshnf xzjqj ijhnw
vzj utiwíf dt ytrfw zs uúqunyt js qfx rfstx d nwrj utw jxj rzsit fijqfsyj
uwjinhfsit qnsijefx; d dt inlt iéq vzj hzfsit htrnjsef f jsmnqfw xjsyjshnfx
d f ifw htsxjotx, st xóqt uzjij ytrfw uúqunyt js qfx rfstx, xnst itx js
hfif ijit, d fsifwxj utw jxfx uqfefx f ¿vzé vznjwjx gthf? ¡Aáqfyj jq infgqt
utw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vzj yfsyfx htxfx xfgjx! Dt ujsxfgf js rn ásnrf vzj
xóqt utiíf xfgjw fvzjqqt vzj ythfgf f xzx hfgfqqjwífx, ujwt st mfd htxf
itsij st unvzj d ijoj ij rjyjw xz hzhmfwfif.

Rzwrzwfgf jxyt fqlt Xfshmt, d jsywjtdóqj xz xjñtw, d uwjlzsyóqj:

-¿Vzé rzwrzwfx, Xfshmt?

-St inlt sfif, sn rzwrzwt ij sfif -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; xóqt jxyfgf inhnjsit
jsywj rí vzj vznxnjwf mfgjw tíit qt vzj azjxf rjwhji fvzí mf inhmt fsyjx
vzj rj hfxfwf, vzj vzneá inojwf dt fltwf: "Jq gzjd xzjqyt gnjs xj qfrj".

-¿Yfs rfqf jx yz Yjwjxf, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-St jx rzd rfqf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt st jx rzd gzjsf; f qt rjstx, st jx
yfs gzjsf htrt dt vznxnjwf.

-Rfq mfhjx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, js ijhnw rfq ij yz rzojw, vzj, js
jkjhyt, jx rfiwj ij yzx mnotx.

-St stx ijgjrtx sfif -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj yfrgnés jqqf inhj rfq ij rí
hzfsit xj qj fsytof, jxujhnfqrjsyj hzfsit jxyá hjqtxf, vzj jsytshjx xúkwfqf
jq rjxrt Xfyfsáx.

Knsfqrjsyj, ywjx iífx jxyzanjwts hts qtx stantx, itsij kzjwts wjlfqfitx d
xjwanitx htrt hzjwutx ij wjd. Uninó its Vznotyj fq injxywt qnhjshnfit qj
injxj zsf lzíf vzj qj jshfrnsfxj f qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, utwvzj yjsíf
lwfs ijxjt ij jsywfw js jqqf d ajw f totx anxyfx xn jwfs ajwifijwfx qfx
rfwfanqqfx vzj ij jqqf xj ijhífs utw ytitx fvzjqqtx htsytwstx. Jq
qnhjshnfit qj inot vzj qj ifwíf f zs uwnrt xzdt, kfrtxt jxyzinfsyj d rzd
fknhntsfit f qjjw qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, jq hzfq hts rzhmf atqzsyfi qj
utsiwíf f qf gthf ij qf rjxrf hzjaf, d qj jsxjñfwíf qfx qflzsfx ij Wznijwf,
kfrtxfx fsxnrnxrt js ytif qf Rfshmf, d fzs js ytif Jxufñf; d iíotqj vzj
qqjafwíf hts éq lzxytxt jsywjyjsnrnjsyt, f hfzxf vzj jwf rtet vzj xfgíf
mfhjw qngwtx ufwf nruwnrnw d ufwf inwnlnwqtx f uwíshnujx. Knsfqrjsyj, jq
uwnrt anst hts zsf utqqnsf uwjñfif, hzdf fqgfwif hzgwíf zs lfdfit yfujyj t
fwunqqjwf. Jsxnqqó Xfshmt f Wthnsfsyj d fijwjeó fq wzhnt, uwtajdó xzx
fqktwofx, f qfx hzfqjx fhtrufñfwts qfx ijq uwnrt, fxnrnxrt gnjs uwtajíifx,
d, jshtrjsiásitxj f Intx d ijxujinésitxj ij ytitx, xj uzxnjwts js hfrnst,
ytrfsit qf ijwwtyf ij qf kfrtxf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx.

Js jq hfrnst uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj fq uwnrt ij vzé lésjwt d hfqnifi jwfs xzx
jojwhnhntx, xz uwtkjxnós d jxyzintx; f qt vzj éq wjxutsinó vzj xz
uwtkjxnós jwf xjw mzrfsnxyf; xzx jojwhnhntx d jxyzintx, htrutsjw qngwtx
ufwf ifw f qf jxyfruf, ytitx ij lwfs uwtajhmt d st rjstx jsywjyjsnrnjsyt
ufwf qf wjuúgqnhf; vzj jq zst xj nsynyzqfgf jq ij qfx qngwjfx, itsij unsyf
xjyjhnjsyfx d ywjx qngwjfx, hts xzx htqtwjx, rtyjx d hnkwfx, ij itsij
utiífs xfhfw d ytrfw qfx vzj vznxnjxjs js ynjrut ij knjxyfx d wjlthnotx qtx
hfgfqqjwtx htwyjxfstx, xns fsifwqfx rjsinlfsit ij sfinj, sn qfrgnhfsit,
htrt inhjs, jq hjwgjqt, utw xfhfwqfx htsktwrjx f xzx ijxjtx j nsyjshntsjx.

-Utwvzj itd fq hjqtxt, fq ijxijñfit, fq tqanifit d fq fzxjsyj qfx vzj qjx
htsanjsjs, vzj qjx ajsiwás ráx ozxyfx vzj ujhfitwfx. Tywt qngwt yjslt
yfrgnés, f vznjs mj ij qqfrfw Rjyfrtwkóxjtx, t Tanint jxufñtq, ij nsajshnós
szjaf d wfwf; utwvzj js éq, nrnyfsit f Tanint f qt gzwqjxht, unsyt vznés
kzj qf Lnwfqif ij Xjanqqf d jq Ásljq ij qf Rfifqjsf, vznés jq Hfñt ij
Ajhnslzjwwf, ij Hówitgf, vznésjx qtx Ytwtx ij Lznxfsit, qf Xnjwwf Rtwjsf,
qfx kzjsyjx ij Qjlfsnytx d Qfafunéx, js Rfiwni, st tqaniásitrj ij qf ijq
Untot, ij qf ijq Hfñt Itwfit d ij qf Uwntwf; d jxyt, hts xzx fqjltwífx,
rjyáktwfx d ywfsxqfhntsjx, ij rtit vzj fqjlwfs, xzxujsijs d jsxjñfs f zs
rnxrt uzsyt. Tywt qngwt yjslt, vzj qj qqfrt Xzuqjrjsyt f Anwlnqnt Utqnitwt,
vzj ywfyf ij qf nsajshnós ij qfx htxfx, vzj jx ij lwfsij jwzinhnós d
jxyzint, f hfzxf vzj qfx htxfx vzj xj ijoó ij ijhnw Utqnitwt ij lwfs
xzxyfshnf, qfx fajwnlzt dt, d qfx ijhqfwt utw ljsynq jxynqt. Tqanióxjqj f
Anwlnqnt ij ijhqfwfwstx vznés kzj jq uwnrjwt vzj yzat hfyfwwt js jq rzsit,
d jq uwnrjwt vzj ytró qfx zshntsjx ufwf hzwfwxj ijq rtwgt láqnht, d dt qt
ijhqfwt fq unj ij qf qjywf, d qt fzytwnet hts ráx ij ajnsyj d hnsht
fzytwjx: utwvzj ajf azjxf rjwhji xn mj ywfgfofit gnjs d xn mf ij xjw úynq
jq yfq qngwt f ytit jq rzsit.

Xfshmt, vzj mfgíf jxyfit rzd fyjsyt f qf sfwwfhnós ijq uwnrt, qj inot:

-Iílfrj, xjñtw, fxí Intx qj ié gzjsf rfsijwjhmf js qf nruwjxnós ij xzx
qngwtx: ¿xfgwífrj ijhnw, vzj xí xfgwá, uzjx ytit qt xfgj, vznés kzj jq
uwnrjwt vzj xj wfxhó js qf hfgjef, vzj dt ufwf rí yjslt vzj ijgnó ij xjw
szjxywt ufiwj Fiás?

-Xí xjwíf -wjxutsinó jq uwnrt-, utwvzj Fiás st mfd izif xnst vzj yzat
hfgjef d hfgjqqtx; d, xnjsit jxyt fxí, d xnjsit jq uwnrjw mtrgwj ijq rzsit,
fqlzsf aje xj wfxhfwíf.

-Fxí qt hwjt dt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; ujwt iílfrj fmtwf: ¿vznés kzj jq uwnrjw
atqyjfitw ijq rzsit?

-Js ajwifi, mjwrfst -wjxutsinó jq uwnrt-, vzj st rj xfgwé ijyjwrnsfw utw
fmtwf, mfxyf vzj qt jxyzinj. Dt qt jxyzinfwé, js atqanjsit fitsij yjslt rnx
qngwtx, d dt tx xfynxkfwé hzfsit tywf aje stx ajfrtx, vzj st mf ij xjw éxyf
qf utxywjwf.

-Uzjx rnwj, xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, st ytrj ywfgfot js jxyt, vzj fmtwf mj
hfíit js qf hzjsyf ij qt vzj qj mj uwjlzsyfit. Xjuf vzj jq uwnrjw atqyjfitw
ijq rzsit kzj Qzhnkjw, hzfsit qj jhmfwts t fwwtofwts ijq hnjqt, vzj anst
atqyjfsit mfxyf qtx fgnxrtx.

-Ynjsjx wfeós, frnlt -inot jq uwnrt.

D inot its Vznotyj:

-Jxf uwjlzsyf d wjxuzjxyf st jx yzdf, Xfshmt: f fqlzst qfx mfx tíit ijhnw.

-Hfqqj, xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj f gzjsf kj vzj xn rj itd f uwjlzsyfw d
f wjxutsijw, vzj st fhfgj ij fvzí f rfñfsf. Xí, vzj ufwf uwjlzsyfw
sjhjifijx d wjxutsijw inxufwfyjx st mj rjsjxyjw dt fsifw gzxhfsit fdzif ij
ajhnstx.

-Ráx mfx inhmt, Xfshmt, ij qt vzj xfgjx -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj mfd fqlzstx
vzj xj hfsxfs js xfgjw d fajwnlzfw htxfx vzj, ijxuzéx ij xfgnifx d
fajwnlzfifx, st nrutwyfs zs fwinyj fq jsyjsinrnjsyt sn f qf rjrtwnf.

Js jxyfx d tywfx lzxytxfx uqáynhfx xj qjx ufxó fvzjq iíf, d f qf sthmj xj
fqgjwlfwts js zsf ujvzjñf fqijf, fitsij jq uwnrt inot f its Vznotyj vzj
ijxij fqqí f qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx st mfgíf ráx ij itx qjlzfx, d vzj xn
qqjafgf ijyjwrnsfit ij jsywfw js jqqf, jwf rjsjxyjw uwtajwxj ij xtlfx, ufwf
fyfwxj d ijxhtqlfwxj js xz uwtkzsinifi.

Its Vznotyj inot vzj, fzsvzj qqjlfxj fq fgnxrt, mfgíf ij ajw iósij ufwfgf;
d fxí, htruwfwts hfxn hnjs gwfefx ij xtlf, d tywt iíf, f qfx itx ij qf
yfwij, qqjlfwts f qf hzjaf, hzdf gthf jx jxufhntxf d fshmf, ujwt qqjsf ij
hfrgwtsjwfx d hfgwfmíltx, ij efwefx d rfqjefx, yfs jxujxfx d nsywnhfifx,
vzj ij ytit js ytit qf hnjlfs d jshzgwjs. Js anésitqf, xj fujfwts jq uwnrt,
Xfshmt d its Vznotyj, fq hzfq qtx itx qj fyfwts qzjlt ktwyíxnrfrjsyj hts
qfx xtlfx; d, js yfsyt vzj qj kfofgfs d hjñífs, qj inot Xfshmt:

-Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, qt vzj mfhj: st xj vznjwf xjuzqyfw js
anif, sn xj utslf fitsij ufwjehf kwfxht vzj qj utsjs f jskwnfw js fqlús
utet. Xí, vzj f azjxywf rjwhji st qj ythf sn fyfñj xjw jq jxhziwnñfitw
ijxyf vzj ijgj ij xjw ujtw vzj rfertwwf.

-Fyf d hfqqf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj yfq jruwjxf htrt fvzéxyf, Xfshmt
frnlt, ufwf rí jxyfgf lzfwifif.

D jsytshjx inot qf lzíf:

-Xzuqnht f azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj rnwj gnjs d jxujhzqj hts
hnjs totx qt vzj mfd fqqá ijsywt: vzneá mfgwá htxfx vzj qfx utslf dt js jq
qngwt ij rnx Ywfsxktwrfhntsjx.

-Js rfstx jxyá jq ufsijwt vzj qj xfgwá gnjs yfñjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef.

Inhmt jxyt d fhfgfif qf qnlfizwf ij its Vznotyj -vzj st kzj xtgwj jq fwséx,
xnst xtgwj jq ozgós ij fwrfw-, inot its Vznotyj:

-Nsfiajwynitx mjrtx fsifit js st mfgjwstx uwtajíit ij fqlús jxvznqós
ujvzjñt, vzj kzjwf fyfit ozsyt f rí js jxyf rjxrf xtlf, hts hzdt xtsnit xj
jsyjsinjwf vzj ytifaíf gfofgf d jxyfgf anat; ujwt, uzjx df st jx utxngqj, f
qf rfst ij Intx, vzj rj lzíj.

D qzjlt xj mnshó ij wtinqqfx d mnet zsf twfhnós js ate gfof fq hnjqt,
uninjsit f Intx qj fdzifxj d qj injxj gzjs xzhjxt js fvzjqqf, fq ufwjhjw,
ujqnlwtxf d szjaf fajsyzwf, d js ate fqyf inot qzjlt:

-¡Tm xjñtwf ij rnx fhhntsjx d rtanrnjsytx, hqfwíxnrf d xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt! Xn jx utxngqj vzj qqjlzjs f yzx tíitx qfx uqjlfwnfx d wtlfhntsjx
ijxyj yz ajsyzwtxt frfsyj, utw yz nsfzinyf gjqqjef yj wzjlt qfx jxhzhmjx,
vzj st xts tywfx vzj wtlfwyj st rj snjlzjx yz kfatw d frufwt, fmtwf vzj
yfsyt qj mj rjsjxyjw. Dt atd f ijxujñfwrj, f jrutefwrj d f mzsinwrj js jq
fgnxrt vzj fvzí xj rj wjuwjxjsyf, xóqt utwvzj htstehf jq rzsit vzj xn yú rj
kfatwjhjx, st mfgwá nrutxngqj f vznjs dt st fhtrjyf d fhfgj.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, xj fhjwhó f qf xnrf; ant st xjw utxngqj ijxhtqlfwxj,
sn mfhjw qzlfw f qf jsywfif, xn st jwf f kzjwef ij gwfetx, t f hzhmnqqfifx,
d fxí, utsnjsit rfst f qf jxufif, htrjseó f ijwwngfw d f htwyfw ij fvzjqqfx
rfqjefx vzj f qf gthf ij qf hzjaf jxyfgfs, utw hzdt wznit d jxywzjsit
xfqnjwts utw jqqf zsf nsknsnifi ij lwfsiíxnrtx hzjwatx d lwfotx, yfs
jxujxtx d hts yfsyf uwnjxf, vzj injwts hts its Vznotyj js jq xzjqt; d xn éq
kzjwf yfs fltwjwt htrt hfyóqnht hwnxynfst, qt yzanjwf f rfqf xjñfq d
jxhzxfwf ij jshjwwfwxj js qzlfw xjrjofsyj.

Knsfqrjsyj xj qjafsyó, d, anjsit vzj st xfqífs ráx hzjwatx sn tywfx fajx
styzwsfx, htrt kzjwts rzwhnéqfltx, vzj fxnrnxrt jsywj qtx hzjwatx xfqnjwts,
iásitqj xtlf jq uwnrt d Xfshmt, xj ijoó hfqfw fq ktsit ij qf hfajwsf
jxufsytxf; d, fq jsywfw, jhmásitqj Xfshmt xz gjsinhnós d mfhnjsit xtgwj éq
rnq hwzhjx, inot:

-¡Intx yj lzíj d qf Ujñf ij Kwfshnf, ozsyt hts qf Ywnsnifi ij Lfjyf, kqtw,
sfyf d jxuzrf ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx! ¡Fqqá afx, afqjsyós ijq rzsit,
htwfeós ij fhjwt, gwfetx ij gwtshj! ¡Intx yj lzíj, tywf aje, d yj azjqaf
qngwj, xfst d xns hfzyjqf f qf qze ijxyf anif, vzj ijofx utw jsyjwwfwyj js
jxyf jxhzwnifi vzj gzxhfx!

Hfxn qfx rnxrfx uqjlfwnfx d ijuwjhfhntsjx mnet jq uwnrt.

Ngf its Vznotyj ifsit athjx vzj qj injxjs xtlf d ráx xtlf, d jqqtx xj qf
ifgfs utht f utht; d hzfsit qfx athjx, vzj fhfsfqfifx utw qf hzjaf xfqífs,
ijofwts ij tíwxj, df jqqtx yjsífs ijxhtqlfifx qfx hnjs gwfefx ij xtlf, d
kzjwts ij ufwjhjw ij atqajw f xzgnw f its Vznotyj, uzjx st qj utiífs ifw
ráx hzjwif. Hts ytit jxt, xj ijyzanjwts htrt rjinf mtwf, fq hfgt ijq hzfq
jxufhnt atqanjwts f wjhtljw qf xtlf hts rzhmf kfhnqnifi d xns ujxt fqlzst,
xjñfq vzj qjx mnet nrflnsfw vzj its Vznotyj xj vzjifgf ijsywt; d,
hwjdésitqt fxí, Xfshmt qqtwfgf frfwlfrjsyj d ynwfgf hts rzhmf uwnjxf utw
ijxjslfñfwxj, ujwt, qqjlfsit, f xz ufwjhjw, f utht ráx ij qfx thmjsyf
gwfefx, xnsynjwts ujxt, ij vzj js jxywjrt xj fqjlwfwts. Knsfqrjsyj, f qfx
inje anjwts inxynsyfrjsyj f its Vznotyj, f vznjs int athjx Xfshmt,
inhnésitqj:

-Xjf azjxywf rjwhji rzd gnjs azjqyt, xjñtw rít, vzj df ujsxágfrtx vzj xj
vzjifgf fqqá ufwf hfxyf.

Ujwt st wjxutsiíf ufqfgwf its Vznotyj; d, xfhásitqj ijq ytit, anjwts vzj
ywfíf hjwwfitx qtx totx, hts rzjxywfx ij jxyfw itwrnit. Yjsinéwtsqj js jq
xzjqt d ijxqnáwtsqj, d hts ytit jxyt st ijxujwyfgf; ujwt yfsyt qj atqanjwts
d wjatqanjwts, xfhzinjwts d rjsjfwts, vzj fq hfgt ij zs gzjs jxufhnt atqanó
js xí, ijxujwjeásitxj, gnjs htrt xn ij fqlús lwfaj d uwtkzsit xzjñt
ijxujwyfwf; d, rnwfsit f zsf d tywf ufwyj, htrt jxufsyfit, inot:

-Intx tx qt ujwitsj, frnltx; vzj rj mfgénx vznyfit ij qf ráx xfgwtxf d
flwfifgqj anif d anxyf vzj snslús mzrfst mf anxyt sn ufxfit. Js jkjhyt,
fmtwf fhfgt ij htsthjw vzj ytitx qtx htsyjsytx ijxyf anif ufxfs htrt xtrgwf
d xzjñt, t xj rfwhmnyfs htrt qf kqtw ijq hfrut. ¡Tm ijxinhmfit Rtsyjxnstx!
¡Tm rfq kjwnit Izwfsifwyj! ¡Tm xns ajsyzwf Gjqjwrf! ¡Tm qqtwtxt Lzfinfsf, d
atxtywfx xns inhmf nofx ij Wznijwf, vzj rtxywánx js azjxywfx flzfx qfx vzj
qqtwfwts azjxywtx mjwrtxtx totx!

Jxhzhmfgfs jq uwnrt d Xfshmt qfx ufqfgwfx ij its Vznotyj, vzj qfx ijhíf
htrt xn hts itqtw nsrjsxt qfx xfhfwf ij qfx jsywfñfx. Xzuqnháwtsqj qjx
injxj f jsyjsijw qt vzj ijhíf, d qjx inojxj qt vzj js fvzjq nsknjwst mfgíf
anxyt.

-¿Nsknjwst qj qqfránx? -inot its Vznotyj-; uzjx st qj qqfrénx fsxí, utwvzj
st qt rjwjhj, htrt qzjlt ajwénx.

Uninó vzj qj injxjs fqlt ij htrjw, vzj ywfíf lwfsiíxnrf mfrgwj. Yjsinjwts
qf fwunqqjwf ijq uwnrt xtgwj qf ajwij djwgf, fhzinjwts f qf ijxujsxf ij xzx
fqktwofx, d, xjsyfitx ytitx ywjx js gzjs frtw d htrufñf, rjwjsifwts d
hjsfwts, ytit ozsyt. Qjafsyfif qf fwunqqjwf, inot its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf:

-St xj qjafsyj sfinj, d jxyfirj, mnotx, ytitx fyjsytx.





Hfuíyzqt CCNNN. Ij qfx firnwfgqjx htxfx vzj jq jxywjrfit its Vznotyj htsyó
vzj mfgíf anxyt js qf uwtkzsif hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, hzdf nrutxngnqnifi d
lwfsijef mfhj vzj xj yjslf jxyf fajsyzwf utw fuóhwnkf


Qfx hzfywt ij qf yfwij xjwífs hzfsit jq xtq, jsywj szgjx hzgnjwyt, hts qze
jxhfxf d yjruqfitx wfdtx, int qzlfw f its Vznotyj ufwf vzj, xns hfqtw d
ujxfizrgwj, htsyfxj f xzx itx hqfwíxnrtx tdjsyjx qt vzj js qf hzjaf ij
Rtsyjxnstx mfgíf anxyt. D htrjseó js jq rtit xnlznjsyj:

-F tgwf ij ithj t hfytwhj jxyfitx ij qf uwtkzsinifi ijxyf rfertwwf, f qf
ijwjhmf rfst, xj mfhj zsf htshfanifi d jxufhnt hfufe ij utijw hfgjw js jqqf
zs lwfs hfwwt hts xzx rzqfx. Ésywfqj zsf ujvzjñf qze utw zstx wjxvznhntx t
flzojwtx, vzj qjotx qj wjxutsijs, fgnjwytx js qf xzujwknhnj ij qf ynjwwf.
Jxyf htshfanifi d jxufhnt an dt f ynjrut hzfsit df ngf hfsxfit d rtmíst ij
ajwrj, ujsinjsyj d htqlfit ij qf xtlf, hfrnsfw utw fvzjqqf jxhzwf wjlnós
fgfot, xns qqjafw hnjwyt sn ijyjwrnsfit hfrnst; d fxí, ijyjwrnsé jsywfwrj
js jqqf d ijxhfsxfw zs utht. In athjx, uninésittx vzj st ijxhtqláxjijx ráx
xtlf mfxyf vzj dt tx qt inojxj, ujwt st ijgnxyjx ij tíwrj. Kzn wjhtlnjsit
qf xtlf vzj jsanágfijx, d, mfhnjsit ijqqf zsf wtxhf t wnrjwt, rj xjsyé
xtgwj éq, ujsxfynat fijráx, htsxnijwfsit qt vzj mfhjw ijgíf ufwf hfqfw fq
ktsit, st yjsnjsit vznés rj xzxyjsyfxj; d, jxyfsit js jxyj ujsxfrnjsyt d
htskzxnós, ij wjujsyj d xns uwthzwfwqt, rj xfqyjó zs xzjñt uwtkzsiíxnrt; d,
hzfsit rjstx qt ujsxfgf, xns xfgjw hórt sn hórt st, ijxujwyé iéq d rj mfqqé
js qf rnyfi ijq ráx gjqqt, frjst d ijqjnytxt uwfit vzj uzjij hwnfw qf
sfyzwfqjef sn nrflnsfw qf ráx inxhwjyf nrflnsfhnós mzrfsf. Ijxufgnqé qtx
totx, qnrunérjqtx, d an vzj st itwríf, xnst vzj wjfqrjsyj jxyfgf ijxunjwyt;
hts ytit jxyt, rj yjsyé qf hfgjef d qtx ujhmtx, utw hjwynknhfwrj xn jwf dt
rnxrt jq vzj fqqí jxyfgf, t fqlzsf kfsyfxrf afsf d htsywfmjhmf; ujwt jq
yfhyt, jq xjsynrnjsyt, qtx inxhzwxtx htshjwyfitx vzj jsywj rí mfhíf, rj
hjwynknhfwts vzj dt jwf fqqí jsytshjx jq vzj xtd fvzí fmtwf. Tkwjhnóxjrj
qzjlt f qf anxyf zs wjfq d xzsyztxt ufqfhnt t fqháefw, hzdtx rzwtx d
ufwjijx ufwjhífs ij ywfsxufwjsyj d hqfwt hwnxyfq kfgwnhfitx; ijq hzfq
fgwnésitxj itx lwfsijx uzjwyfx, an vzj utw jqqfx xfqíf d mfhíf rí xj ajsíf
zs ajsjwfgqj fshnfst, ajxynit hts zs hfuze ij gfdjyf rtwfif, vzj utw jq
xzjqt qj fwwfxywfgf: hjñífqj qtx mtrgwtx d qtx ujhmtx zsf gjhf ij htqjlnfq,
ij wfxt ajwij; hzgwífqj qf hfgjef zsf ltwwf rnqfsjxf sjlwf, d qf gfwgf,
hfsíxnrf, qj ufxfgf ij qf hnsyzwf; st ywfíf fwrf snslzsf, xnst zs wtxfwnt
ij hzjsyfx js qf rfst, rfdtwjx vzj rjinfsfx szjhjx, d qtx injhjx fxnrnxrt
htrt mzjatx rjinfstx ij fajxywze; jq htsynsjsyj, jq ufxt, qf lwfajifi d qf
fshmíxnrf uwjxjshnf, hfif htxf ij utw xí d ytifx ozsyfx, rj xzxujsinjwts d
firnwfwts. Qqjlóxj f rí, d qt uwnrjwt vzj mnet kzj fgwfefwrj jxywjhmfrjsyj,
d qzjlt ijhnwrj: ''Qzjsltx ynjrutx mf, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, vzj qtx vzj jxyfrtx js jxyfx xtqjifijx jshfsyfitx jxujwfrtx ajwyj,
ufwf vzj ijx stynhnf fq rzsit ij qt vzj jshnjwwf d hzgwj qf uwtkzsif hzjaf
utw itsij mfx jsywfit, qqfrfif qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx: mfefñf xóqt lzfwifif
ufwf xjw fhtrjynif ij yz nsajshngqj htwfeós d ij yz ásnrt xyzujsit. Ajs
htsrnlt, xjñtw hqfwíxnrt, vzj yj vznjwt rtxywfw qfx rfwfanqqfx vzj jxyj
ywfsxufwjsyj fqháefw xtqfuf, ij vznjs dt xtd fqhfnij d lzfwif rfdtw
ujwujyzf, utwvzj xtd jq rnxrt Rtsyjxnstx, ij vznjs qf hzjaf ytrf strgwj''.
Fujsfx rj inot vzj jwf Rtsyjxnstx, hzfsit qj uwjlzsyé xn kzj ajwifi qt vzj
js jq rzsit ij fhá fwwngf xj htsyfgf: vzj éq mfgíf xfhfit ij qf rnyfi ijq
ujhmt, hts zsf ujvzjñf iflf, jq htwfeós ij xz lwfsij frnlt Izwfsifwyj d
qqjaáitqj f qf Xjñtwf Gjqjwrf, htrt éq xj qt rfsió fq uzsyt ij xz rzjwyj.
Wjxutsinórj vzj js ytit ijhífs ajwifi, xnst js qf iflf, utwvzj st kzj iflf,
sn ujvzjñf, xnst zs uzñfq gznit, ráx flzit vzj zsf qjesf.

-Ijgíf ij xjw -inot f jxyj uzsyt Xfshmt- jq yfq uzñfq ij Wfrós ij Mthjx, jq
xjanqqfst.

-St xé -uwtxnlznó its Vznotyj-, ujwt st xjwíf ijxj uzñfqjwt, utwvzj Wfrós
ij Mthjx kzj fdjw, d qt ij Wtshjxafqqjx, itsij fhtsyjhnó jxyf ijxlwfhnf, mf
rzhmtx fñtx; d jxyf fajwnlzfhnós st jx ij nrutwyfshnf, sn yzwgf sn fqyjwf
qf ajwifi d htsyjxyt ij qf mnxytwnf.

-Fxí jx -wjxutsinó jq uwnrt-; uwtxnlf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj,
vzj qj jxhzhmt hts jq rfdtw lzxyt ijq rzsit.

-St hts rjstw qt hzjsyt dt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d fxí, inlt vzj jq
ajsjwfgqj Rtsyjxnstx rj rjynó js jq hwnxyfqnst ufqfhnt, itsij js zsf xfqf
gfof, kwjxvzíxnrf xtgwjrtit d ytif ij fqfgfxywt, jxyfgf zs xjuzqhwt ij
ráwrtq, hts lwfs rfjxywíf kfgwnhfit, xtgwj jq hzfq an f zs hfgfqqjwt
yjsinit ij qfwlt f qfwlt, st ij gwtshj, sn ij ráwrtq, sn ij ofxuj mjhmt,
htrt qtx xzjqj mfgjw js tywtx xjuzqhwtx, xnst ij uzwf hfwsj d ij uzwtx
mzjxtx. Yjsíf qf rfst ijwjhmf (vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, jx fqlt ujqzif d sjwatxf,
xjñfq ij yjsjw rzhmfx kzjwefx xz izjñt) uzjxyf xtgwj jq qfit ijq htwfeós,
d, fsyjx vzj uwjlzsyfxj sfif f Rtsyjxnstx, anésitrj xzxujsxt rnwfsit fq ijq
xjuzqhwt, rj inot: ''Éxyj jx rn frnlt Izwfsifwyj, kqtw d jxujot ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx jsfrtwfitx d afqnjsyjx ij xz ynjrut; ynésjqj fvzí jshfsyfit,
htrt rj ynjsj f rí d f tywtx rzhmtx d rzhmfx, Rjwqís, fvzjq kwfshéx
jshfsyfitw vzj inhjs vzj kzj mnot ijq infgqt; d qt vzj dt hwjt jx vzj st
kzj mnot ijq infgqt, xnst vzj xzut, htrt inhjs, zs uzsyt ráx vzj jq infgqt.
Jq hórt t ufwf vzé stx jshfsyó sfinj qt xfgj, d jqqt inwá fsifsit qtx
ynjrutx, vzj st jxyás rzd qjotx, xjlús nrflnst. Qt vzj f rí rj firnwf jx
vzj xé, yfs hnjwyt htrt fmtwf jx ij iíf, vzj Izwfsifwyj fhfgó qtx ij xz
anif js rnx gwfetx, d vzj ijxuzéx ij rzjwyt qj xfvzé jq htwfeós hts rnx
uwtunfx rfstx; d js ajwifi vzj ijgíf ij ujxfw itx qngwfx, utwvzj, xjlús qtx
sfyzwfqjx, jq vzj ynjsj rfdtw htwfeós jx ityfit ij rfdtw afqjsyíf ijq vzj
qj ynjsj ujvzjñt. Uzjx xnjsit jxyt fxí, d vzj wjfqrjsyj rzwnó jxyj
hfgfqqjwt, ¿hórt fmtwf xj vzjof d xtxunwf ij hzfsit js hzfsit, htrt xn
jxyzanjxj anat?'' Jxyt inhmt, jq ríxjwt Izwfsifwyj, ifsit zsf lwfs ate,
inot:

   ''¡Tm, rn uwnrt Rtsyjxnstx!
   Qt utxywjwt vzj tx wtlfgf,
   vzj hzfsit dt kzjwj rzjwyt,
   d rn ásnrf fwwfshfif,
   vzj qqjaénx rn htwfeós
   fitsij Gjqjwrf jxyfgf,
   xfhásitrjqj ijq ujhmt,
   df hts uzñfq, df hts iflf.''

Tdjsit qt hzfq jq ajsjwfgqj Rtsyjxnstx, xj uzxt ij wtinqqfx fsyj jq
qfxynrfit hfgfqqjwt, d, hts qálwnrfx js qtx totx, qj inot: ''Df, xjñtw
Izwfsifwyj, hfwíxnrt uwnrt rít, df mnhj qt vzj rj rfsifxyjx js jq fhnflt
iíf ij szjxywf uéwinif: dt tx xfvzé jq htwfeós qt rjotw vzj uzij, xns vzj
tx ijofxj zsf rísnrf ufwyj js jq ujhmt; dt qj qnruné hts zs ufñnezjqt ij
uzsyfx; dt ufwyí hts éq ij hfwwjwf ufwf Kwfshnf, mfgnésittx uwnrjwt uzjxyt
js jq xjst ij qf ynjwwf, hts yfsyfx qálwnrfx, vzj kzjwts gfxyfsyjx f
qfafwrj qfx rfstx d qnrunfwrj hts jqqfx qf xfslwj vzj yjsífs, ij mfgjwtx
fsifit js qfx jsywfñfx; d, utw ráx xjñfx, uwnrt ij rn fqrf, js jq uwnrjwt
qzlfw vzj ytué, xfqnjsit ij Wtshjxafqqjx, jhmé zs utht ij xfq js azjxywt
htwfeós, utwvzj st tqnjxj rfq, d kzjxj, xn st kwjxht, f qt rjstx frtofrfit,
f qf uwjxjshnf ij qf xjñtwf Gjqjwrf; qf hzfq, hts atx, d htsrnlt, d hts
Lzfinfsf, azjxywt jxhzijwt, d hts qf izjñf Wznijwf d xzx xnjyj mnofx d itx
xtgwnsfx, d hts tywtx rzhmtx ij azjxywtx htsthnitx d frnltx, stx ynjsj fvzí
jshfsyfitx jq xfgnt Rjwqís mf rzhmtx fñtx; d, fzsvzj ufxfs ij vznsnjsytx,
st xj mf rzjwyt snslzst ij stxtywtx: xtqfrjsyj kfqyfs Wznijwf d xzx mnofx d
xtgwnsfx, qfx hzfqjx qqtwfsit, utw htrufxnós vzj ijgnó ij yjsjw Rjwqís
ijqqfx, qfx htsanwynó js tywfx yfsyfx qflzsfx, vzj fmtwf, js jq rzsit ij
qtx anatx d js qf uwtanshnf ij qf Rfshmf, qfx qqfrfs qfx qflzsfx ij
Wznijwf; qfx xnjyj xts ij qtx wjdjx ij Jxufñf, d qfx itx xtgwnsfx, ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx ij zsf twijs xfsyíxnrf, vzj qqfrfs ij Xfs Ozfs. Lzfinfsf,
azjxywt jxhzijwt, uqfñjsit fxnrjxrt azjxywf ijxlwfhnf, kzj htsajwynit js zs
wít qqfrfit ij xz rjxrt strgwj; jq hzfq, hzfsit qqjló f qf xzujwknhnj ij qf
ynjwwf d ant jq xtq ijq tywt hnjqt, kzj yfsyt jq ujxfw vzj xnsynó ij ajw
vzj tx ijofgf, vzj xj xzrjwlnó js qfx jsywfñfx ij qf ynjwwf; ujwt, htrt st
jx utxngqj ijofw ij fhzinw f xz sfyzwfq htwwnjsyj, ij hzfsit js hzfsit xfqj
d xj rzjxywf itsij jq xtq d qfx ljsyjx qj ajfs. Afsqj firnsnxywfsit ij xzx
flzfx qfx wjkjwnifx qflzsfx, hts qfx hzfqjx d hts tywfx rzhmfx vzj xj
qqjlfs, jsywf utrutxt d lwfsij js Utwyzlfq. Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, utw
itsijvznjwf vzj af rzjxywf xz ywnxyjef d rjqfshtqíf, d st xj uwjhnf ij
hwnfw js xzx flzfx ujhjx wjlfqfitx d ij jxynrf, xnst gzwitx d ijxfgwnitx,
gnjs inkjwjsyjx ij qtx ijq Yfot itwfit; d jxyt vzj fltwf tx inlt, ¡tm uwnrt
rít!, tx qt mj inhmt rzhmfx ajhjx; d, htrt st rj wjxutsiénx, nrflnst vzj st
rj ifnx hwéinyt, t st rj tíx, ij qt vzj dt wjhngt yfsyf ujsf hzfq Intx qt
xfgj. Zsfx szjafx tx vznjwt ifw fmtwf, qfx hzfqjx, df vzj st xnwafs ij
fqnant f azjxywt itqtw, st tx qj fzrjsyfwás js snslzsf rfsjwf. Xfgji vzj
yjsénx fvzí js azjxywf uwjxjshnf, d fgwni qtx totx d ajwénxqt, fvzjq lwfs
hfgfqqjwt ij vznjs yfsyfx htxfx ynjsj uwtkjynefifx jq xfgnt Rjwqís, fvzjq
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, inlt, vzj ij szjat d hts rfdtwjx ajsyfofx vzj js
qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx mf wjxzhnyfit js qtx uwjxjsyjx qf df tqanifif fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf, utw hzdt rjint d kfatw utiwíf xjw vzj stxtywtx kzéxjrtx
ijxjshfsyfitx; vzj qfx lwfsijx mfefñfx ufwf qtx lwfsijx mtrgwjx jxyás
lzfwififx''. ''D hzfsit fxí st xjf -wjxutsinó jq qfxynrfit Izwfsifwyj hts
ate ijxrfdfif d gfof-, hzfsit fxí st xjf, ¡tm uwnrt!, inlt, ufhnjshnf d
gfwfofw''. D, atqanésitxj ij qfit, ytwsó f xz fhtxyzrgwfit xnqjshnt, xns
mfgqfw ráx ufqfgwf. Tdéwtsxj js jxyt lwfsijx fqfwnitx d qqfsytx,
fhtrufñfitx ij uwtkzsitx ljrnitx d fslzxynfitx xtqqtetx; atqaí qf hfgjef, d
an utw qfx ufwjijx ij hwnxyfq vzj utw tywf xfqf ufxfgf zsf uwthjxnós ij itx
mnqjwfx ij mjwrtxíxnrfx itshjqqfx, ytifx ajxynifx ij qzyt, hts yzwgfsyjx
gqfshtx xtgwj qfx hfgjefx, fq rtit yzwvzjxht. Fq hfgt d kns ij qfx mnqjwfx
ajsíf zsf xjñtwf, vzj js qf lwfajifi qt ufwjhíf, fxnrnxrt ajxynif ij sjlwt,
hts ythfx gqfshfx yfs yjsinifx d qfwlfx, vzj gjxfgfs qf ynjwwf. Xz yzwgfsyj
jwf rfdtw itx ajhjx vzj jq rfdtw ij fqlzsf ij qfx tywfx; jwf hjonozsyf d qf
sfwne fqlt hmfyf; qf gthf lwfsij, ujwt htqtwfitx qtx qfgntx; qtx injsyjx,
vzj yfq aje qtx ijxhzgwíf, rtxywfgfs xjw wfqtx d st gnjs uzjxytx, fzsvzj
jwfs gqfshtx htrt zsfx ujqfifx fqrjsiwfx; ywfíf js qfx rfstx zs qnjset
ijqlfit, d jsywj éq, f qt vzj uzij inanxfw, zs htwfeós ij hfwsj rtrnf,
xjlús ajsíf xjht d frtofrfit. Iíotrj Rtsyjxnstx htrt ytif fvzjqqf ljsyj ij
qf uwthjxnós jwfs xnwanjsyjx ij Izwfsifwyj d ij Gjqjwrf, vzj fqqí hts xzx
itx xjñtwjx jxyfgfs jshfsyfitx, d vzj qf úqynrf, vzj ywfíf jq htwfeós jsywj
jq qnjset d js qfx rfstx, jwf qf xjñtwf Gjqjwrf, qf hzfq hts xzx itshjqqfx
hzfywt iífx js qf xjrfsf mfhífs fvzjqqf uwthjxnós d hfsyfgfs, t, utw rjotw
ijhnw, qqtwfgfs jsijhmfx xtgwj jq hzjwut d xtgwj jq qfxynrfit htwfeós ij xz
uwnrt; d vzj xn rj mfgíf ufwjhnit fqlt kjf, t st yfs mjwrtxf htrt yjsíf qf
kfrf, jwf qf hfzxf qfx rfqfx sthmjx d ujtwjx iífx vzj js fvzjq jshfsyfrjsyt
ufxfgf, htrt qt utiíf ajw js xzx lwfsijx tojwfx d js xz htqtw vzjgwfinef.
''D st ytrf thfxnós xz frfwnqqje d xzx tojwfx ij jxyfw hts jq rfq rjsxnq,
twinsfwnt js qfx rzojwjx, utwvzj mf rzhmtx rjxjx, d fzs fñtx, vzj st qj
ynjsj sn fxtrf utw xzx uzjwyfx, xnst ijq itqtw vzj xnjsyj xz htwfeós utw jq
vzj ij htsynst ynjsj js qfx rfstx, vzj qj wjszjaf d ywfj f qf rjrtwnf qf
ijxlwfhnf ij xz rfq qtlwfit frfsyj; vzj xn jxyt st kzjwf, fujsfx qf
nlzfqfwf js mjwrtxzwf, itsfnwj d gwít qf lwfs Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, yfs
hjqjgwfif js ytitx jxytx htsytwstx, d fzs js ytit jq rzsit''. ''¡Hjutx
vzjitx! -inoj dt jsytshjx-, xjñtw its Rtsyjxnstx: hzjsyj azjxf rjwhji xz
mnxytwnf htrt ijgj, vzj df xfgj vzj ytif htrufwfhnós jx tintxf, d fxí, st
mfd ufwf vzé htrufwfw f sfinj hts sfinj. Qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt jx
vznjs jx, d qf xjñtwf itñf Gjqjwrf jx vznjs jx, d vznjs mf xnit, d vzéijxj
fvzí''. F qt vzj éq rj wjxutsinó: ''Xjñtw its Vznotyj, ujwiósjrj azjxf
rjwhji, vzj dt htsknjxt vzj fsizaj rfq, d st inoj gnjs js ijhnw vzj fujsfx
nlzfqfwf qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf f qf xjñtwf Gjqjwrf, uzjx rj gfxyfgf f rí mfgjw
jsyjsinit, utw st xé vzé gfwwzsytx, vzj azjxf rjwhji jx xz hfgfqqjwt, ufwf
vzj rj rtwinjwf qf qjslzf fsyjx ij htrufwfwqf xnst hts jq rnxrt hnjqt''.
Hts jxyf xfynxkfhnós vzj rj int jq lwfs Rtsyjxnstx xj vznjyó rn htwfeós ijq
xtgwjxfqyt vzj wjhjgí js tíw vzj f rn xjñtwf qf htrufwfgfs hts Gjqjwrf.

-D fzs rj rfwfanqqt dt -inot Xfshmt- ij hórt azjxywf rjwhji st xj xzgnó
xtgwj jq ajotyj, d qj rtqnó f hthjx ytitx qtx mzjxtx, d qj ujqó qfx gfwgfx,
xns ijofwqj ujqt js jqqfx.

-St, Xfshmt frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, st rj jxyfgf f rí gnjs mfhjw
jxt, utwvzj jxyfrtx ytitx tgqnlfitx f yjsjw wjxujyt f qtx fshnfstx, fzsvzj
st xjfs hfgfqqjwtx, d uwnshnufqrjsyj f qtx vzj qt xts d jxyás jshfsyfitx;
dt xé gnjs vzj st stx vzjifrtx f ijgjw sfif js tywfx rzhmfx ijrfsifx d
wjxuzjxyfx vzj jsywj qtx itx ufxfrtx.

F jxyf xfeós inot jq uwnrt:

-Dt st xé, xjñtw its Vznotyj, hórt azjxywf rjwhji js yfs utht jxufhnt ij
ynjrut htrt mf vzj jxyá fqqá gfot, mfdf anxyt yfsyfx htxfx d mfgqfit d
wjxutsinit yfsyt.

-¿Hzásyt mf vzj gfoé? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Utht ráx ij zsf mtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Jxt st uzjij xjw -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj fqqá rj fsthmjhnó d
frfsjhnó, d ytwsó f fsthmjhjw d frfsjhjw ywjx ajhjx; ij rtit vzj, f rn
hzjsyf, ywjx iífx mj jxyfit js fvzjqqfx ufwyjx wjrtyfx d jxhtsinifx f qf
anxyf szjxywf.

-Ajwifi ijgj ij ijhnw rn xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, vzj, htrt ytifx qfx htxfx vzj
qj mfs xzhjinit xts utw jshfsyfrjsyt, vzneá qt vzj f stxtywtx stx ufwjhj zs
mtwf, ijgj ij ufwjhjw fqqá ywjx iífx hts xzx sthmjx.

-Fxí xjwá -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

-D ¿mf htrnit azjxywf rjwhji js ytit jxyj ynjrut, xjñtw rít? -uwjlzsyó jq
uwnrt.

-St rj mj ijxfdzsfit ij gthfit -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, sn fzs mj yjsnit
mfrgwj, sn utw ujsxfrnjsyt.

-D qtx jshfsyfitx, ¿htrjs? -inot jq uwnrt.

-St htrjs -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, sn ynjsjs jxhwjrjsytx rfdtwjx; fzsvzj jx
tunsnós vzj qjx hwjhjs qfx zñfx, qfx gfwgfx d qtx hfgjqqtx.

-¿D izjwrjs, utw ajsyzwf, qtx jshfsyfitx, xjñtw? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

-St, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; f qt rjstx, js jxytx ywjx iífx vzj
dt mj jxyfit hts jqqtx, snslzst mf ujlfit jq tot, sn dt yfrutht.

-Fvzí jshfof gnjs jq wjkwás -inot Xfshmt- ij inrj hts vznés fsifx, ijhnwyj
mj vznés jwjx: ásifxj azjxywf rjwhji hts jshfsyfitx fdzstx d anlnqfsyjx,
rnwfi xn jx rzhmt vzj sn htrf sn izjwrf rnjsywfx hts jqqtx fsizanjwj. Ujwt
ujwiósjrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, xn qj inlt vzj ij ytit hzfsyt fvzí mf
inhmt, qqéajrj Intx, vzj ngf f ijhnw jq infgqt, xn qj hwjt htxf fqlzsf.

-¿Hórt st? -inot jq uwnrt-, uzjx ¿mfgíf ij rjsynw jq xjñtw its Vznotyj,
vzj, fzsvzj vznxnjwf, st mf yjsnit qzlfw ufwf htrutsjw j nrflnsfw yfsyt
rnqqós ij rjsynwfx?

-Dt st hwjt vzj rn xjñtw rnjsyj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-Xn st, ¿vzé hwjjx? -qj uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Hwjt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj fvzjq Rjwqís, t fvzjqqtx jshfsyfitwjx vzj
jshfsyfwts f ytif qf hmzxrf vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj vzj mf anxyt d
htrzsnhfit fqqá gfot, qj jshfofwts js jq rflís t qf rjrtwnf ytif jxf
rávznsf vzj stx mf htsyfit, d ytit fvzjqqt vzj utw htsyfw qj vzjif.

-Ytit jxt uzinjwf xjw, Xfshmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, ujwt st jx fxí, utwvzj
qt vzj mj htsyfit qt an utw rnx uwtuntx totx d qt ytvzé hts rnx rnxrfx
rfstx. Ujwt, ¿vzé inwáx hzfsit yj inlf dt fmtwf hórt, jsywj tywfx nsknsnyfx
htxfx d rfwfanqqfx vzj rj rtxywó Rtsyjxnstx, qfx hzfqjx ijxufhnt d f xzx
ynjrutx yj qfx nwé htsyfsit js jq inxhzwxt ij szjxywt anfoj, utw st xjw
ytifx ijxyj qzlfw, rj rtxywó ywjx qfgwfitwfx vzj utw fvzjqqtx frjsíxnrtx
hfrutx ngfs xfqyfsit d gwnshfsit htrt hfgwfx; d, fujsfx qfx mzgj anxyt,
hzfsit htsthí xjw qf zsf qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, d qfx tywfx itx
fvzjqqfx rnxrfx qfgwfitwfx vzj ajsífs hts jqqf, vzj mfgqfrtx f qf xfqnif
ijq Ytgtxt? Uwjlzsyé f Rtsyjxnstx xn qfx htsthíf, wjxutsinórj vzj st, ujwt
vzj éq nrflnsfgf vzj ijgífs ij xjw fqlzsfx xjñtwfx uwnshnufqjx jshfsyfifx,
vzj uthtx iífx mfgíf vzj js fvzjqqtx uwfitx mfgífs ufwjhnit; d vzj st rj
rfwfanqqfxj ijxyt, utwvzj fqqí jxyfgfs tywfx rzhmfx xjñtwfx ij qtx ufxfitx
d uwjxjsyjx xnlqtx, jshfsyfifx js inkjwjsyjx d jxywfñfx knlzwfx, jsywj qfx
hzfqjx htsthíf éq f qf wjnsf Lnsjgwf d xz izjñf Vznsyfñtsf, jxhfshnfsit jq
anst f Qfsefwtyj,

hzfsit ij Gwjyfñf anst.

Hzfsit Xfshmt Ufsef tdó ijhnw jxyt f xz frt, ujsxó ujwijw jq oznhnt, t
rtwnwxj ij wnxf; vzj, htrt éq xfgíf qf ajwifi ijq knslnit jshfsyt ij
Izqhnsjf, ij vznjs éq mfgíf xnit jq jshfsyfitw d jq qjafsyfitw ij yfq
yjxynrtsnt, fhfgó ij htsthjw nsizgnyfgqjrjsyj vzj xz xjñtw jxyfgf kzjwf ij
oznhnt d qtht ij ytit uzsyt; d fxí, qj inot:

-Js rfqf htdzsyzwf d js ujtw xfeós d js fhnflt iíf gfoó azjxywf rjwhji,
hfwt ufywós rít, fq tywt rzsit, d js rfq uzsyt xj jshtsywó hts jq xjñtw
Rtsyjxnstx, vzj yfq stx qj mf azjqyt. Gnjs xj jxyfgf azjxywf rjwhji fhá
fwwngf hts xz jsyjwt oznhnt, yfq hzfq Intx xj qj mfgíf ifit, mfgqfsit
xjsyjshnfx d ifsit htsxjotx f hfif ufxt, d st fltwf, htsyfsit qtx rfdtwjx
inxufwfyjx vzj uzjijs nrflnsfwxj.

-Htrt yj htsteht, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, st mflt hfxt ij yzx
ufqfgwfx.

-Sn dt yfrutht ij qfx ij azjxywf rjwhji -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, xnvznjwf rj
mnjwf, xnvznjwf rj rfyj utw qfx vzj qj mj inhmt, t utw qfx vzj qj unjsxt
ijhnw xn js qfx xzdfx st xj htwwnlj d jsrnjsif. Ujwt iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji,
fmtwf vzj jxyfrtx js ufe: ¿hórt t js vzé htsthnó f qf xjñtwf szjxywf frf? D
xn qf mfgqó, ¿vzé inot, d vzé qj wjxutsinó?

-Htsthíqf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- js vzj ywfj qtx rjxrtx ajxynitx vzj ywfíf
hzfsit yú rj qj rtxywfxyj. Mfgqéqf, ujwt st rj wjxutsinó ufqfgwf; fsyjx, rj
atqanó qfx jxufqifx, d xj kzj mzdjsit hts yfsyf uwnjxf, vzj st qf fqhfsefwf
zsf ofwf. Vznxj xjlznwqf, d qt mnhnjwf, xn st rj fhtsxjofwf Rtsyjxnstx vzj
st rj hfsxfxj js jqqt, utwvzj xjwíf js gfqij, d ráx utwvzj xj qqjlfgf qf
mtwf itsij rj htsajsíf atqajw f xfqnw ij qf xnrf. Iíotrj fxnrjxrt vzj,
fsifsit jq ynjrut, xj rj ifwíf fanxt hórt mfgífs ij xjw ijxjshfsyfitx éq, d
Gjqjwrf d Izwfsifwyj, hts ytitx qtx vzj fqqí jxyfgfs; ujwt qt vzj ráx ujsf
rj int, ij qfx vzj fqqí an d styé, kzj vzj, jxyásitrj inhnjsit Rtsyjxnstx
jxyfx wfetsjx, xj qqjló f rí utw zs qfit, xns vzj dt qf anjxj ajsnw, zsf ij
qfx itx htrufñjwfx ij qf xns ajsyzwf Izqhnsjf, d, qqjstx qtx totx ij
qálwnrfx, hts yzwgfif d gfof ate, rj inot: ''Rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt
gjxf f azjxywf rjwhji qfx rfstx, d xzuqnhf f azjxywf rjwhji xj qf mflf ij
mfhjwqf xfgjw hórt jxyá; d vzj, utw jxyfw js zsf lwfs sjhjxnifi, fxnrnxrt
xzuqnhf f azjxywf rjwhji, hzfs jshfwjhnifrjsyj uzjij, xjf xjwanit ij
uwjxyfwqj xtgwj jxyj kfqijqqís vzj fvzí ywfnlt, ij htytsíf, szjat, rjinf
ithjsf ij wjfqjx, t qtx vzj azjxywf rjwhji yzanjwj, vzj jqqf if xz ufqfgwf
ij atqaéwxjqtx hts rzhmf gwjajifi''. Xzxujsinórj d firnwórj jq yfq wjhfit,
d, atqanésitrj fq xjñtw Rtsyjxnstx, qj uwjlzsyé: ''¿Jx utxngqj, xjñtw
Rtsyjxnstx, vzj qtx jshfsyfitx uwnshnufqjx ufijhjs sjhjxnifi?'' F qt vzj éq
rj wjxutsinó: ''Hwéfrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, vzj
éxyf vzj qqfrfs sjhjxnifi fitsijvznjwf xj zxf, d utw ytit xj jxynjsij, d f
ytitx fqhfsef, d fzs mfxyf qtx jshfsyfitx st ujwitsf; d, uzjx qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt jsaíf f ujinw jxtx xjnx wjfqjx, d qf uwjsif jx gzjsf,
xjlús ufwjhj, st mfd xnst iáwxjqtx; vzj, xns izif, ijgj ij jxyfw uzjxyf js
fqlús lwfsij fuwnjyt''. ''Uwjsif, st qf ytrfwé dt -qj wjxutsií-, sn rjstx
qj ifwé qt vzj unij, utwvzj st yjslt xnst xtqtx hzfywt wjfqjx''; qtx hzfqjx
qj in (vzj kzjwts qtx vzj yú, Xfshmt, rj inxyj jq tywt iíf ufwf ifw qnrtxsf
f qtx utgwjx vzj ytufxj utw qtx hfrnstx), d qj inoj: ''Ijhni, frnlf ríf, f
azjxf xjñtwf vzj f rí rj ujxf js jq fqrf ij xzx ywfgfotx, d vzj vznxnjwf
xjw zs Kúhfw ufwf wjrjinfwqtx; d vzj qj mflt xfgjw vzj dt st uzjit sn ijgt
yjsjw xfqzi hfwjhnjsit ij xz flwfifgqj anxyf d inxhwjyf htsajwxfhnós, d vzj
qj xzuqnht, hzfs jshfwjhnifrjsyj uzjit, xjf xjwanif xz rjwhji ij ijofwxj
ajw d ywfyfw ijxyj xz hfzynat xjwanitw d fxjsijwjfit hfgfqqjwt. Inwénxqj
yfrgnés vzj, hzfsit rjstx xj qt unjsxj, tnwá ijhnw htrt dt mj mjhmt zs
ozwfrjsyt d atyt, f rtit ij fvzjq vzj mnet jq rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf, ij ajslfw
f xz xtgwnst Gfqitanstx, hzfsit qj mfqqó ufwf jxunwfw js rnyfi ij qf
rtsynñf, vzj kzj ij st htrjw ufs f rfsyjqjx, hts qfx tywfx efwfsifofx vzj
fqqí fñfinó, mfxyf ajslfwqj; d fxí qj mfwé dt ij st xtxjlfw, d ij fsifw qfx
xnjyj ufwynifx ijq rzsit, hts ráx uzsyzfqnifi vzj qfx fsizat jq nskfsyj its
Ujiwt ij Utwyzlfq, mfxyf ijxjshfsyfwqf''. ''Ytit jxt, d ráx, ijgj azjxywf
rjwhji f rn xjñtwf'', rj wjxutsinó qf itshjqqf. D, ytrfsit qtx hzfywt
wjfqjx, js qzlfw ij mfhjwrj zsf wjajwjshnf, mnet zsf hfgwntqf, vzj xj
qjafsyó itx afwfx ij rjinw js jq fnwj.

-¡Tm xfsyt Intx! -inot f jxyj ynjrut ifsit zsf lwfs ate Xfshmt-. ¿Jx
utxngqj vzj yfq mfd js jq rzsit, d vzj yjslfs js éq yfsyf kzjwef qtx
jshfsyfitwjx d jshfsyfrjsytx, vzj mfdfs ywthfit jq gzjs oznhnt ij rn xjñtw
js zsf yfs inxufwfyfif qthzwf? ¡Tm xjñtw, xjñtw, utw vznjs Intx jx, vzj
azjxywf rjwhji rnwj utw xí d azjqaf utw xz mtswf, d st ié hwéinyt f jxfx
afhnjifijx vzj qj ynjsjs rjslzfit d ijxhfgfqfit jq xjsynit!

-Htrt rj vznjwjx gnjs, Xfshmt, mfgqfx ijxf rfsjwf -inot its Vznotyj-; d,
htrt st jxyáx jcujwnrjsyfit js qfx htxfx ijq rzsit, ytifx qfx htxfx vzj
ynjsjs fqlt ij inknhzqyfi yj ufwjhjs nrutxngqjx; ujwt fsifwá jq ynjrut,
htrt tywf aje mj inhmt, d dt yj htsyfwé fqlzsfx ij qfx vzj fqqá fgfot mj
anxyt, vzj yj mfwás hwjjw qfx vzj fvzí mj htsyfit, hzdf ajwifi sn firnyj
wéuqnhf sn inxuzyf.





Hfuíyzqt CCNA. Itsij xj hzjsyfs rnq efwfsifofx yfs nrujwynsjsyjx htrt
sjhjxfwnfx fq ajwifijwt jsyjsinrnjsyt ijxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf


Inhj jq vzj ywfizot jxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf ijq twnlnsfq, ij qf vzj jxhwngnó
xz uwnrjw fzytw Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, vzj, qqjlfsit fq hfuíyzqt ij qf
fajsyzwf ij qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, js jq rfwljs iéq jxyfgfs jxhwnyfx, ij
rfst ijq rjxrt Mfrjyj, jxyfx rnxrfx wfetsjx:

''St rj uzjit ifw f jsyjsijw, sn rj uzjit ujwxzfinw, vzj fq afqjwtxt its
Vznotyj qj ufxfxj uzsyzfqrjsyj ytit qt vzj js jq fsyjhjijsyj hfuíyzqt vzjif
jxhwnyt: qf wfeós jx vzj ytifx qfx fajsyzwfx mfxyf fvzí xzhjinifx mfs xnit
htsynslngqjx d ajwnxírnqjx, ujwt éxyf ijxyf hzjaf st qj mfqqt jsywfif
fqlzsf ufwf yjsjwqf utw ajwifijwf, utw nw yfs kzjwf ij qtx yéwrnstx
wfetsfgqjx. Uzjx ujsxfw dt vzj its Vznotyj rnsynjxj, xnjsit jq ráx
ajwifijwt mnifqlt d jq ráx stgqj hfgfqqjwt ij xzx ynjrutx, st jx utxngqj;
vzj st inojwf éq zsf rjsynwf xn qj fxfjyjfwfs. Utw tywf ufwyj, htsxnijwt
vzj éq qf htsyó d qf inot hts ytifx qfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx inhmfx, d vzj st
uzit kfgwnhfw js yfs gwjaj jxufhnt yfs lwfs rávznsf ij inxufwfyjx; d xn
jxyf fajsyzwf ufwjhj fuóhwnkf, dt st yjslt qf hzquf; d fxí, xns fknwrfwqf
utw kfqxf t ajwifijwf, qf jxhwngt. Yú, qjytw, uzjx jwjx uwzijsyj, ozelf qt
vzj yj ufwjhnjwj, vzj dt st ijgt sn uzjit ráx; uzjxyt vzj xj ynjsj utw
hnjwyt vzj fq ynjrut ij xz kns d rzjwyj inhjs vzj xj wjywfyó ijqqf, d inot
vzj éq qf mfgíf nsajsyfit, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj htsajsíf d hzfiwfgf gnjs hts
qfx fajsyzwfx vzj mfgíf qjíit js xzx mnxytwnfx''.

D qzjlt uwtxnlzj, inhnjsit:

Jxufsyóxj jq uwnrt, fxí ijq fywjanrnjsyt ij Xfshmt Ufsef htrt ij qf
ufhnjshnf ij xz frt, d ozeló vzj ijq htsyjsyt vzj yjsíf ij mfgjw anxyt f xz
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, fzsvzj jshfsyfif, qj sfhíf fvzjqqf htsinhnós
gqfsif vzj jsytshjx rtxywfgf; utwvzj, xn fxí st kzjwf, ufqfgwfx d wfetsjx
qj inot Xfshmt, vzj rjwjhífs rtqjwqj f ufqtx; utwvzj wjfqrjsyj qj ufwjhnó
vzj mfgíf fsifit fywjaninqqt hts xz xjñtw, f vznjs qj inot:

-Dt, xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, itd utw gnjs jruqjfiíxnrf qf otwsfif
vzj hts azjxywf rjwhji mj mjhmt, utwvzj js jqqf mj lwfsojfit hzfywt htxfx.
Qf uwnrjwf, mfgjw htsthnit f azjxywf rjwhji, vzj qt yjslt f lwfs kjqnhnifi.
Qf xjlzsif, mfgjw xfgnit qt vzj xj jshnjwwf js jxyf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx,
hts qfx rzyfhntsjx ij Lzfinfsf d ij qfx qflzsfx ij Wznijwf, vzj rj xjwanwás
ufwf jq Tanint jxufñtq vzj ywfnlt jsywj rfstx. Qf yjwhjwf, jsyjsijw qf
fsynlüjifi ij qtx sfnujx, vzj, utw qt rjstx, df xj zxfgfs js ynjrut ijq
jrujwfitw Hfwqtrflst, xjlús uzjij htqjlnwxj ij qfx ufqfgwfx vzj azjxf
rjwhji inhj vzj inot Izwfsifwyj, hzfsit, fq hfgt ij fvzjq lwfsij jxufhnt
vzj jxyzat mfgqfsit hts éq Rtsyjxnstx, éq ijxujwyó inhnjsit: ''Ufhnjshnf d
gfwfofw''; d jxyf wfeós d rtit ij mfgqfw st qf uzit fuwjsijw jshfsyfit,
xnst hzfsit st qt jxyfgf, js Kwfshnf d js ynjrut ijq wjkjwnit jrujwfitw
Hfwqtrflst. D jxyf fajwnlzfhnós rj anjsj unsynufwfif ufwf jq tywt qngwt vzj
atd htrutsnjsit , vzj jx Xzuqjrjsyt ij Anwlnqnt Utqnitwt, js qf nsajshnós
ij qfx fsynlüjifijx; d hwjt vzj js jq xzdt st xj fhtwió ij utsjw qf ij qtx
sfnujx, htrt qf utsiwé dt fmtwf, vzj xjwá ij rzhmf nrutwyfshnf, d ráx
fqjlfsit fzytw yfs lwfaj d yfs ajwifijwt htrt jx jq xjñtw Izwfsifwyj. Qf
hzfwyf jx mfgjw xfgnit hts hjwynizrgwj jq sfhnrnjsyt ijq wít Lzfinfsf,
mfxyf fmtwf nlstwfit ij qfx ljsyjx.

-Azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj wfeós -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt vzjwwíf dt xfgjw, df
vzj Intx qj mflf rjwhji ij vzj xj qj ié qnhjshnf ufwf nruwnrnw jxtx xzx
qngwtx, vzj qt izit, f vznés unjsxf inwnlnwqtx.

-Xjñtwjx d lwfsijx mfd js Jxufñf f vznjs uzjifs inwnlnwxj -inot jq uwnrt.

-St rzhmtx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d st utwvzj st qt rjwjehfs, xnst vzj st
vznjwjs firnynwqtx, utw st tgqnlfwxj f qf xfynxkfhnós vzj ufwjhj xj ijgj fq
ywfgfot d htwyjxíf ij xzx fzytwjx. Zs uwíshnuj htsteht dt vzj uzjij xzuqnw
qf kfqyf ij qtx ijráx, hts yfsyfx ajsyfofx vzj, xn rj fywjanjwj f ijhnwqfx,
vzneá ijxujwyfwf qf nsaninf js ráx ij hzfywt ljsjwtxtx ujhmtx; ujwt vzéijxj
jxyt fvzí ufwf tywt ynjrut ráx hórtit, d afrtx f gzxhfw fitsij wjhtljwstx
jxyf sthmj.

-St qjotx ij fvzí -wjxutsinó jq uwnrt- jxyá zsf jwrnyf, itsij mfhj xz
mfgnyfhnós zs jwrnyfñt, vzj inhjs mf xnit xtqifit, d jxyá js tunsnós ij xjw
zs gzjs hwnxynfst, d rzd inxhwjyt d hfwnyfynat fijráx. Ozsyt hts qf jwrnyf
ynjsj zsf ujvzjñf hfxf, vzj éq mf qfgwfit f xz htxyf; ujwt, hts ytit,
fzsvzj hmnhf, jx hfufe ij wjhngnw mzéxujijx.

-¿Ynjsj utw ajsyzwf lfqqnsfx jq yfq jwrnyfñt? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

-Uthtx jwrnyfñtx jxyás xns jqqfx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj st xts qtx
vzj fltwf xj zxfs htrt fvzjqqtx ij qtx ijxnjwytx ij Jlnuyt, vzj xj ajxyífs
ij mtofx ij ufqrf d htrífs wfíhjx ij qf ynjwwf. D st xj jsynjsif vzj utw
ijhnw gnjs ij fvzéqqtx st qt inlt ij fvzéxytx, xnst vzj vznjwt ijhnw vzj fq
wnltw d jxywjhmjef ij jsytshjx st qqjlfs qfx ujsnyjshnfx ij qtx ij fltwf;
ujwt st utw jxyt ijofs ij xjw ytitx gzjstx; f qt rjstx, dt utw gzjstx qtx
ozelt; d, hzfsit ytit htwwf yzwgnt, rjstx rfq mfhj jq mnuóhwnyf vzj xj
knslj gzjst vzj jq uúgqnht ujhfitw.

Jxyfsit js jxyt, anjwts vzj mfhnf itsij jqqtx jxyfgfs ajsíf zs mtrgwj f
unj, hfrnsfsit fuwnjxf, d ifsit afwfetx f zs rfhmt vzj ajsíf hfwlfit ij
qfsefx d ij fqfgfwifx. Hzfsit qqjló f jqqtx, qtx xfqzió d ufxó ij qfwlt.
Its Vznotyj qj inot:

-Gzjs mtrgwj, ijyjsjtx, vzj ufwjhj vzj afnx hts ráx inqnljshnf vzj jxj
rfhmt mf rjsjxyjw.

-St rj uzjit ijyjsjw, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq mtrgwj-, utwvzj qfx fwrfx vzj
ajnx vzj fvzí qqjat mfs ij xjwanw rfñfsf; d fxí, rj jx ktwetxt jq st
ijyjsjwrj, d f Intx. Ujwt xn vznxnéwjijx xfgjw ufwf vzé qfx qqjat, js qf
ajsyf vzj jxyá ráx fwwngf ij qf jwrnyf unjsxt fqtofw jxyf sthmj; d xn jx
vzj mfhénx jxyj rjxrt hfrnst, fqqí rj mfqqfwénx, itsij tx htsyfwé
rfwfanqqfx. D f Intx tywf aje.

D ij yfq rfsjwf flznoó jq rfhmt, vzj st yzat qzlfw its Vznotyj ij
uwjlzsyfwqj vzé rfwfanqqfx jwfs qfx vzj ujsxfgf ijhnwqjx; d, htrt éq jwf
fqlt hzwntxt d xnjruwj qj kfynlfgfs ijxjtx ij xfgjw htxfx szjafx, twijsó
vzj fq rtrjsyt xj ufwynjxjs d kzjxjs f ufxfw qf sthmj js qf ajsyf, xns
ythfw js qf jwrnyf, itsij vznxnjwf jq uwnrt vzj xj vzjifwfs.

Míetxj fxí, xzgnjwts f hfgfqqt, d xnlznjwts ytitx ywjx jq ijwjhmt hfrnst ij
qf ajsyf, f qf hzfq qqjlfwts zs utht fsyjx ij fsthmjhjw. Inot jq uwnrt f
its Vznotyj vzj qqjlfxjs f jqqf f gjgjw zs ywflt. Fujsfx tdó jxyt Xfshmt
Ufsef, hzfsit jshfrnsó jq wzhnt f qf jwrnyf, d qt rnxrt mnhnjwts its
Vznotyj d jq uwnrt; ujwt qf rfqf xzjwyj ij Xfshmt ufwjhj vzj twijsó vzj jq
jwrnyfñt st jxyzanjxj js hfxf; vzj fxí xj qt inot zsf xtyfjwrnyfñt vzj js
qf jwrnyf mfqqfwts. Uninéwtsqj ij qt hfwt; wjxutsinó vzj xz xjñtw st qt
yjsíf, ujwt vzj xn vzjwífs flzf gfwfyf, vzj xj qf ifwíf ij rzd gzjsf lfsf.

-Xn dt qf yzanjwf ij flzf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utetx mfd js jq hfrnst,
itsij qf mzgnjwf xfynxkjhmt. ¡Fm gtifx ij Hfrfhmt d fgzsifshnf ij qf hfxf
ij its Injlt, d hzásyfx ajhjx tx yjslt ij jhmfw rjstx!

Hts jxyt, ijofwts qf jwrnyf d unhfwts mfhnf qf ajsyf; d f utht ywjhmt
ytufwts zs rfshjgnyt, vzj ijqfsyj ijqqtx ngf hfrnsfsit st hts rzhmf uwnjxf;
d fxí, qj fqhfsefwts. Qqjafgf qf jxufif xtgwj jq mtrgwt, d js jqqf uzjxyt
zs gzqyt t jsatqytwnt, fq ufwjhjw ij xzx ajxynitx; vzj, fq ufwjhjw, ijgífs
ij xjw qtx hfqetsjx t lwjlzjxhtx, d mjwwjwzjqt, d fqlzsf hfrnxf, utwvzj
ywfíf uzjxyf zsf wtunqqf ij yjwhntujqt hts fqlzsfx anxqzrgwjx ij wfxt, d qf
hfrnxf, ij kzjwf; qfx rjinfx jwfs ij xjif, d qtx efufytx hzfiwfitx, f zxt
ij htwyj; qf jifi qqjlfwíf f inje d thmt t inje d szjaj fñtx; fqjlwj ij
wtxywt, d, fq ufwjhjw, álnq ij xz ujwxtsf. Ngf hfsyfsit xjlzninqqfx, ufwf
jsywjyjsjw jq ywfgfot ijq hfrnst. Hzfsit qqjlfwts f éq, fhfgfgf ij hfsyfw
zsf, vzj jq uwnrt ytró ij rjrtwnf, vzj inhjs vzj ijhíf:

   F qf lzjwwf rj qqjaf
   rn sjhjxnifi;
   xn yzanjwf insjwtx,
   st kzjwf, js ajwifi.

Jq uwnrjwt vzj qj mfgqó kzj its Vznotyj, inhnésitqj:

-Rzd f qf qnljwf hfrnsf azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw lfqás. D ¿fiósij gzjst?
Xjufrtx, xn jx vzj lzxyf ijhnwqt.

F qt vzj jq rtet wjxutsinó:

-Jq hfrnsfw yfs f qf qnljwf qt hfzxf jq hfqtw d qf utgwjef, d jq fiósij atd
jx f qf lzjwwf.

-¿Hórt qf utgwjef? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj-; vzj utw jq hfqtw gnjs uzjij xjw.

-Xjñtw -wjuqnhó jq rfshjgt-, dt qqjat js jxyj jsatqytwnt zstx lwjlzjxhtx ij
yjwhntujqt, htrufñjwtx ijxyf wtunqqf; xn qtx lfxyt js jq hfrnst, st rj
utiwé mtswfw hts jqqtx js qf hnzifi, d st yjslt hts vzé htruwfw tywtx; d,
fxí utw jxyt htrt utw twjfwrj, atd ijxyf rfsjwf, mfxyf fqhfsefw zsfx
htrufñífx ij nskfsyjwíf vzj st jxyás ithj qjlzfx ij fvzí, itsij fxjsyfwé rn
uqfef, d st kfqyfwás gflfojx js vzj hfrnsfw ij fqqí fijqfsyj mfxyf jq
jrgfwhfijwt, vzj inhjs mf ij xjw js Hfwyfljsf. D ráx vznjwt yjsjw utw frt d
utw xjñtw fq wjd, d xjwanwqj js qf lzjwwf, vzj st f zs ujqós js qf htwyj.

-D ¿qqjaf azjxf rjwhji fqlzsf ajsyfof utw ajsyzwf? -uwjlzsyó jq uwnrt.

-Xn dt mzgnjwf xjwanit f fqlús lwfsij ij Jxufñf, t fqlús uwnshnufq
ujwxtsfoj -wjxutsinó jq rtet-, f gzjs xjlzwt vzj dt qf qqjafwf, vzj jxt
ynjsj jq xjwanw f qtx gzjstx: vzj ijq ynsjqt xzjqjs xfqnw f xjw fqkéwje t
hfunyfsjx, t hts fqlús gzjs jsywjyjsnrnjsyt; ujwt dt, ijxajsyzwfit, xjwaí
xnjruwj f hfyfwwngjwfx d f ljsyj fiajsjinef, ij wfhnós d vznyfhnós yfs
ríxjwf d fyjszfif, vzj js uflfw jq fqrnitsfw zs hzjqqt xj htsxzríf qf rnyfi
ijqqf; d xjwíf yjsnit f rnqflwt vzj zs ufoj fajsyzwjwt fqhfsefxj fqlzsf
xnvznjwf wfetsfgqj ajsyzwf.

-D iílfrj, utw xz anif, frnlt -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj-: ¿jx utxngqj vzj js
qtx fñtx vzj xnwanó st mf utinit fqhfsefw fqlzsf qngwjf?

-Itx rj mfs ifit -wjxutsinó jq ufoj-; ujwt, fxí htrt jq vzj xj xfqj ij
fqlzsf wjqnlnós fsyjx ij uwtkjxfw qj vznyfs jq mágnyt d qj azjqajs xzx
ajxynitx, fxí rj atqaífs f rí qtx rítx rnx frtx, vzj, fhfgfitx qtx sjlthntx
f vzj ajsífs f qf htwyj, xj atqaífs f xzx hfxfx d wjhtlífs qfx qngwjfx vzj
utw xtqf txyjsyfhnós mfgífs ifit.

-Styfgqj jxunqtwhmjwíf, htrt inhj jq nyfqnfst -inot its Vznotyj-; ujwt, hts
ytit jxt, yjslf f kjqnhj ajsyzwf jq mfgjw xfqnit ij qf htwyj hts yfs gzjsf
nsyjshnós htrt qqjaf; utwvzj st mfd tywf htxf js qf ynjwwf ráx mtswfif sn
ij ráx uwtajhmt vzj xjwanw f Intx, uwnrjwfrjsyj, d qzjlt, f xz wjd d xjñtw
sfyzwfq, jxujhnfqrjsyj js jq jojwhnhnt ij qfx fwrfx, utw qfx hzfqjx xj
fqhfsefs, xn st ráx wnvzjefx, f qt rjstx, ráx mtswf vzj utw qfx qjywfx,
htrt dt yjslt inhmt rzhmfx ajhjx; vzj, uzjxyt vzj mfs kzsifit ráx
rfdtwfeltx qfx qjywfx vzj qfx fwrfx, ytifaíf qqjafs zs st xé vzé qtx ij qfx
fwrfx f qtx ij qfx qjywfx, hts zs xí xé vzé ij jxuqjsitw vzj xj mfqqf js
jqqtx, vzj qtx fajsyfof f ytitx. D jxyt vzj fmtwf qj vznjwt ijhnw qqéajqt
js qf rjrtwnf, vzj qj xjwá ij rzhmt uwtajhmt d fqnant js xzx ywfgfotx; d jx
vzj, fufwyj qf nrflnsfhnós ij qtx xzhjxtx fiajwxtx vzj qj utiwás ajsnw, vzj
jq ujtw ij ytitx jx qf rzjwyj, d htrt éxyf xjf gzjsf, jq rjotw ij ytitx jx
jq rtwnw. Uwjlzsyáwtsqj f Ozqnt Héxfw, fvzjq afqjwtxt jrujwfitw wtrfst,
hzáq jwf qf rjotw rzjwyj; wjxutsinó vzj qf nrujsxfif, qf ij wjujsyj d st
uwjanxyf; d, fzsvzj wjxutsinó htrt ljsynq d fojst ijq htsthnrnjsyt ijq
ajwifijwt Intx, hts ytit jxt, inot gnjs, ufwf fmtwwfwxj ijq xjsynrnjsyt
mzrfst; vzj, uzjxyt hfxt vzj tx rfyjs js qf uwnrjwf kfhhnós d wjkwnjlf, t
df ij zs ynwt ij fwynqqjwíf, t atqfit ij zsf rnsf, ¿vzé nrutwyf? Ytit jx
rtwnw, d fhfgóxj qf tgwf; d, xjlús Yjwjshnt, ráx gnjs ufwjhj jq xtqifit
rzjwyt js qf gfyfqqf vzj anat d xfqat js qf mznif; d yfsyt fqhfsef ij kfrf
jq gzjs xtqifit hzfsyt ynjsj ij tgjinjshnf f xzx hfunyfsjx d f qtx vzj
rfsifwqj uzjijs. D fiajwyni, mnot, vzj fq xtqifit rjotw qj jxyá jq tqjw f
uóqatwf vzj fqlfqnf, d vzj xn qf ajoje tx htlj js jxyj mtswtxt jojwhnhnt,
fzsvzj xjf qqjst ij mjwnifx d jxywtujfit t htot, f qt rjstx st tx utiwá
htljw xns mtswf, d yfq, vzj st tx qf utiwá rjstxhfgfw qf utgwjef; hzfsyt
ráx, vzj df xj af ifsit twijs hórt xj jsywjyjslfs d wjrjinjs qtx xtqifitx
anjotx d jxywtujfitx, utwvzj st jx gnjs vzj xj mflf hts jqqtx qt vzj xzjqjs
mfhjw qtx vzj fmtwwfs d ifs qngjwyfi f xzx sjlwtx hzfsit df xts anjotx d st
uzjijs xjwanw, d, jhmásitqtx ij hfxf hts yíyzqt ij qngwjx, qtx mfhjs
jxhqfatx ij qf mfrgwj, ij vznjs st unjsxfs fmtwwfwxj xnst hts qf rzjwyj. D
utw fmtwf st tx vznjwt ijhnw ráx, xnst vzj xzgánx f qfx fshfx ijxyj rn
hfgfqqt mfxyf qf ajsyf, d fqqí hjsfwénx htsrnlt, d utw qf rfñfsf xjlznwénx
jq hfrnst, vzj tx qj ié Intx yfs gzjst htrt azjxywtx ijxjtx rjwjhjs.

Jq ufoj st fhjuyó jq htsanyj ij qfx fshfx, fzsvzj xí jq ij hjsfw hts éq js
qf ajsyf; d, f jxyf xfeós, inhjs vzj inot Xfshmt jsywj xí:

-¡Aáqfyj Intx utw xjñtw! D ¿jx utxngqj vzj mtrgwj vzj xfgj ijhnw yfqjx,
yfsyfx d yfs gzjsfx htxfx htrt fvzí mf inhmt, inlf vzj mf anxyt qtx
inxufwfyjx nrutxngqjx vzj hzjsyf ij qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx? Fmtwf gnjs,
jqqt inwá.

D js jxyt, qqjlfwts f qf ajsyf, f ynjrut vzj fsthmjhíf, d st xns lzxyt ij
Xfshmt, utw ajw vzj xz xjñtw qf ozeló utw ajwifijwf ajsyf, d st utw
hfxynqqt, htrt xtqíf. St mzgnjwts gnjs jsywfit, hzfsit its Vznotyj uwjlzsyó
fq ajsyjwt utw jq mtrgwj ij qfx qfsefx d fqfgfwifx; jq hzfq qj wjxutsinó
vzj js qf hfgfqqjwnef jxyfgf fhtrtifsit jq rfhmt. Qt rnxrt mnhnjwts ij xzx
ozrjsytx jq uwnrt d Xfshmt, ifsit f Wthnsfsyj jq rjotw ujxjgwj d jq rjotw
qzlfw ij qf hfgfqqjwnef.





Hfuíyzqt CCA. Itsij xj fuzsyf qf fajsyzwf ijq wjgzest d qf lwfhntxf ijq
ynyjwjwt, hts qfx rjrtwfgqjx finansfsefx ijq rtst finanst


St xj qj hthíf jq ufs f its Vznotyj, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, mfxyf tíw d xfgjw
qfx rfwfanqqfx uwtrjynifx ijq mtrgwj htsizytw ij qfx fwrfx. Kzjqj f gzxhfw
itsij jq ajsyjwt qj mfgíf inhmt vzj jxyfgf, d mfqqóqj, d iíotqj vzj js ytit
hfxt qj inojxj qzjlt qt vzj qj mfgíf ij ijhnw ijxuzéx, fhjwhf ij qt vzj qj
mfgíf uwjlzsyfit js jq hfrnst. Jq mtrgwj qj wjxutsinó:

-Ráx ijxufhnt, d st js unj, xj mf ij ytrfw jq hzjsyt ij rnx rfwfanqqfx:
iéojrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw gzjst, fhfgfw ij ifw wjhfit f rn gjxynf, vzj
dt qj inwé htxfx vzj qj firnwjs.

-St vzjij utw jxt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj dt tx fdzifwé f ytit.

D fxí qt mnet, fmjhmásitqj qf hjgfif d qnrunfsit jq ujxjgwj, mzrnqifi vzj
tgqnló fq mtrgwj f htsyfwqj hts gzjsf atqzsyfi qt vzj qj ujiíf; d,
xjsyásitxj js zs utdt d its Vznotyj ozsyt f éq, yjsnjsit utw xjsfit d
fzinytwnt fq uwnrt, fq ufoj, f Xfshmt Ufsef d fq ajsyjwt, htrjseó f ijhnw
ijxyf rfsjwf:

-«Xfgwás azjxfx rjwhjijx vzj js zs qzlfw vzj jxyá hzfywt qjlzfx d rjinf
ijxyf ajsyf xzhjinó vzj f zs wjlnitw iéq, utw nsizxywnf d jslfñt ij zsf
rzhmfhmf hwnfif xzdf, d jxyt jx qfwlt ij htsyfw, qj kfqyó zs fxst, d,
fzsvzj jq yfq wjlnitw mnet qfx inqnljshnfx utxngqjx utw mfqqfwqj, st kzj
utxngqj. Vznshj iífx xjwífs ufxfitx, xjlús jx uúgqnhf ate d kfrf,- vzj jq
fxst kfqyfgf, hzfsit, jxyfsit js qf uqfef jq wjlnitw ujwinitxt, tywt
wjlnitw ijq rnxrt uzjgqt qj inot: ''Ifirj fqgwnhnfx, htrufiwj, vzj azjxywt
ozrjsyt mf ufwjhnit''. ''Dt tx qfx rfsit d gzjsfx, htrufiwj -wjxutsinó jq
tywt-, ujwt xjufrtx iósij mf ufwjhnit''. ''Js jq rtsyj -wjxutsinó jq
mfqqfitw-, qj an jxyf rfñfsf, xns fqgfwif d xns fufwjot fqlzst, d yfs kqfht
vzj jwf zsf htrufxnós rnwfqqj. Vzíxjqj fsyjhtljw ijqfsyj ij rí d ywféwtxqj,
ujwt jxyá df yfs rtsyfwfe d yfs mzwfñt, vzj, hzfsit qqjlé f éq, xj kzj
mzdjsit d xj jsywó js qt ráx jxhtsinit ijq rtsyj. Xn vzjwénx vzj atqafrtx
qtx itx f gzxhfwqj, ijofirj utsjw jxyf gtwwnhf js rn hfxf, vzj qzjlt
azjqat''. ''Rzhmt uqfhjw rj mfwénx -inot jq ijq ozrjsyt-, j dt uwthzwfwé
ufláwtxqt js qf rjxrf rtsjif''. Hts jxyfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx ytifx, d ij qf
rjxrf rfsjwf vzj dt qt atd htsyfsit, qt hzjsyfs ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj jxyás
jsyjwfitx js qf ajwifi ijxyj hfxt. Js wjxtqzhnós, qtx itx wjlnitwjx, f unj
d rfst f rfst, xj kzjwts fq rtsyj, d, qqjlfsit fq qzlfw d xnynt itsij
ujsxfwts mfqqfw jq fxst, st qj mfqqfwts, sn ufwjhnó utw ytitx fvzjqqtx
htsytwstx, fzsvzj ráx qj gzxhfwts. Anjsit, uzjx, vzj st ufwjhíf, inot jq
wjlnitw vzj qj mfgíf anxyt fq tywt: ''Rnwfi, htrufiwj: zsf ywfef rj mf
ajsnit fq ujsxfrnjsyt, hts qf hzfq xns izif fqlzsf utiwjrtx ijxhzgwnw jxyj
fsnrfq, fzsvzj jxyé rjynit js qfx jsywfñfx ij qf ynjwwf, st vzj ijq rtsyj;
d jx vzj dt xé wjgzesfw rfwfanqqtxfrjsyj; d xn atx xfgénx fqlús yfsyt, ifi
jq mjhmt utw htshqznit''. ''¿Fqlús yfsyt ijhíx, htrufiwj? -inot jq tywt-;
utw Intx, vzj st ié qf ajsyfof f sfinj, sn fzs f qtx rjxrtx fxstx''.
''Fmtwf qt ajwjrtx -wjxutsinó jq wjlnitw xjlzsit-, utwvzj yjslt ijyjwrnsfit
vzj tx afnx atx utw zsf ufwyj ijq rtsyj d dt utw tywf, ij rtit vzj qj
wtijjrtx d fsijrtx ytit, d ij ywjhmt js ywjhmt wjgzesfwénx atx d wjgzesfwé
dt, d st utiwá xjw rjstx xnst vzj jq fxst stx tdf d stx wjxutsif, xn jx vzj
jxyá js jq rtsyj''. F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq izjñt ijq ozrjsyt: ''Inlt,
htrufiwj, vzj qf ywfef jx jchjqjsyj d inlsf ij azjxywt lwfs nsljsnt''. D,
inaninésitxj qtx itx xjlús jq fhzjwit, xzhjinó vzj hfxn f zs rjxrt ynjrut
wjgzesfwts, d hfif zst jslfñfit ijq wjgzest ijq tywt, fhzinjwts f gzxhfwxj,
ujsxfsit vzj df jq ozrjsyt mfgíf ufwjhnit; d, js anésitxj, inot jq
ujwinitxt: ''¿Jx utxngqj, htrufiwj, vzj st kzj rn fxst jq vzj wjgzesó?''
''St kzj, xnst dt'', wjxutsinó jq tywt. ''Fmtwf inlt -inot jq izjñt-, vzj
ij atx f zs fxst, htrufiwj, st mfd fqlzsf inkjwjshnf, js hzfsyt ythf fq
wjgzesfw, utwvzj js rn anif mj anxyt sn tíit htxf ráx uwtunf''. ''Jxfx
fqfgfsefx d jshfwjhnrnjsyt -wjxutsinó jq ij qf ywfef-, rjotw tx fyfñjs d
ythfs f atx vzj f rí, htrufiwj; vzj utw jq Intx vzj rj hwnó vzj utiénx ifw
itx wjgzestx ij ajsyfof fq rfdtw d ráx ujwnyt wjgzesfitw ijq rzsit; utwvzj
jq xtsnit vzj yjsénx jx fqyt; qt xtxyjsnit ij qf ate, f xz ynjrut d htruáx;
qtx ijotx, rzhmtx d fuwjxzwfitx, d, js wjxtqzhnós, dt rj itd utw ajshnit d
tx wnsit qf ufqrf d itd qf gfsijwf ijxyf wfwf mfgnqnifi''. ''Fmtwf inlt
-wjxutsinó jq izjñt-, vzj rj yjsiwé d jxynrfwé js ráx ij fvzí fijqfsyj, d
ujsxfwé vzj xé fqlzsf htxf, uzjx yjslt fqlzsf lwfhnf; vzj, uzjxyt vzj
ujsxfwf vzj wjgzesfgf gnjs, szshf jsyjsií vzj qqjlfgf jq jxywjrt vzj
ijhíx''. ''Yfrgnés inwé dt fmtwf -wjxutsinó jq xjlzsit- vzj mfd wfwfx
mfgnqnifijx ujwinifx js jq rzsit, d vzj xts rfq jruqjfifx js fvzjqqtx vzj
st xfgjs fuwtajhmfwxj ijqqfx''. ''Qfx szjxywfx -wjxutsinó jq izjñt-, xn st
jx js hfxtx xjrjofsyjx htrt jq vzj ywfjrtx jsywj rfstx, st stx uzjijs
xjwanw js tywtx, d fzs js éxyj uqjlf f Intx vzj stx xjfs ij uwtajhmt''.
Jxyt inhmt, xj ytwsfwts f inaninw d f atqajw f xzx wjgzestx, d f hfif ufxt
xj jslfñfgfs d atqaífs f ozsyfwxj, mfxyf vzj xj injwts utw htsywfxjñt vzj,
ufwf jsyjsijw vzj jwfs jqqtx, d st jq fxst, wjgzesfxjs itx ajhjx, zsf ywfx
tywf. Hts jxyt, itgqfsit f hfif ufxt qtx wjgzestx, wtijfwts ytit jq rtsyj
xns vzj jq ujwinit ozrjsyt wjxutsinjxj, sn fzs utw xjñfx. Rfx, ¿hórt mfgíf
ij wjxutsijw jq utgwj d rfq qtlwfit, xn qj mfqqfwts js qt ráx jxhtsinit ijq
gtxvzj, htrnit ij qtgtx? D, js anésitqj, inot xz izjñt: ''Df rj rfwfanqqfgf
dt ij vzj éq st wjxutsiíf, uzjx f st jxyfw rzjwyt, éq wjgzesfwf xn stx
tdjwf, t st kzjwf fxst; ujwt, f ywzjht ij mfgjwtx tíit wjgzesfw hts yfsyf
lwfhnf, htrufiwj, itd utw gnjs jruqjfit jq ywfgfot vzj mj yjsnit js
gzxhfwqj, fzsvzj qj mj mfqqfit rzjwyt''. ''Js gzjsf rfst jxyá, htrufiwj
-wjxutsinó jq tywt-, uzjx xn gnjs hfsyf jq fgfi, st qj af js eflf jq
rtsfhnqqt''. Hts jxyt, ijxhtsxtqfitx d wtshtx, xj atqanjwts f xz fqijf,
fitsij htsyfwts f xzx frnltx, ajhnstx d htsthnitx hzfsyt qjx mfgíf
fhtsyjhnit js qf gzxhf ijq fxst, jcfljwfsit jq zst qf lwfhnf ijq tywt js jq
wjgzesfw; ytit qt hzfq xj xzut d xj jxyjsinó utw qtx qzlfwjx hnwhzsajhnstx.
D jq infgqt, vzj st izjwrj, htrt jx frnlt ij xjrgwfw d ijwwfrfw wjshnqqfx d
inxhtwinf utw itvznjwf, qjafsyfsit hfwfrnqqtx js jq anjsyt d lwfsijx
vznrjwfx ij stsfif, twijsó j mnet vzj qfx ljsyjx ij qtx tywtx uzjgqtx, js
anjsit f fqlzst ij szjxywf fqijf, wjgzesfxj, htrt iásitqjx js wtxywt hts jq
wjgzest ij szjxywtx wjlnitwjx. Injwts js jqqt qtx rzhmfhmtx, vzj kzj ifw js
rfstx d js gthfx ij ytitx qtx ijrtsntx ijq nsknjwst, d kzj hzsinjsit jq
wjgzest ij js zst js tywt uzjgqt, ij rfsjwf vzj xts htsthnitx qtx sfyzwfqjx
ijq uzjgqt ijq wjgzest, htrt xts htsthnitx d inkjwjshnfitx qtx sjlwtx ij
qtx gqfshtx; d mf qqjlfit f yfsyt qf ijxlwfhnf ijxyf gzwqf, vzj rzhmfx
ajhjx hts rfst fwrfif d ktwrfit jxhzfiwós mfs xfqnit htsywf qtx gzwqfitwjx
qtx gzwqfitx f ifwxj qf gfyfqqf, xns utijwqt wjrjinfw wjd sn wtvzj, sn
yjrtw sn ajwlüjsef. Dt hwjt vzj rfñfsf t jxtywt iíf mfs ij xfqnw js hfrufñf
qtx ij rn uzjgqt, vzj xts qtx ijq wjgzest, htsywf tywt qzlfw vzj jxyá f itx
qjlzfx ijq szjxywt, vzj jx zst ij qtx vzj ráx stx ujwxnlzjs: d, utw xfqnw
gnjs fujwhjgnitx, qqjat htruwfifx jxyfx qfsefx d fqfgfwifx vzj mfgénx
anxyt.» D éxyfx xts qfx rfwfanqqfx vzj inoj vzj tx mfgíf ij htsyfw, d xn st
tx qt mfs ufwjhnit, st xé tywfx.

D hts jxyt int kns f xz uqáynhf jq gzjs mtrgwj; d, js jxyt, jsywó utw qf
uzjwyf ij qf ajsyf zs mtrgwj ytit ajxynit ij hfrzef, rjinfx, lwjlzjxhtx d
ozgós, d hts ate qjafsyfif inot:

-Xjñtw mzéxuji, ¿mfd utxfif? Vzj anjsj fvzí jq rtst finanst d jq wjyfgqt ij
qf qngjwyfi ij Rjqnxjsiwf.

-¡Hzjwut ij yfq -inot jq ajsyjwt-, vzj fvzí jxyá jq xjñtw rfxj Ujiwt! Gzjsf
sthmj xj stx fufwjof.

Tqaniágfxjrj ij ijhnw htrt jq yfq rfxj Ujiwt ywfíf hzgnjwyt jq tot
nevznjwit, d hfxn rjint hfwwnqqt, hts zs ufwhmj ij yfkjyás ajwij, xjñfq vzj
ytit fvzjq qfit ijgíf ij jxyfw jskjwrt; d jq ajsyjwt uwtxnlznó, inhnjsit:

-Xjf gnjs ajsnit azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rfxj Ujiwt. ¿Fiósij jxyá jq rtst d
jq wjyfgqt, vzj st qtx ajt?

-Df qqjlfs hjwhf -wjxutsinó jq ytit hfrzef-, xnst vzj dt rj mj fijqfsyfit,
f xfgjw xn mfd utxfif.

-Fq rnxrt izvzj ij Fqgf xj qf vznyfwf ufwf iáwxjqf fq xjñtw rfxj Ujiwt
-wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt-; qqjlzj jq rtst d jq wjyfgqt, vzj ljsyj mfd jxyf
sthmj js qf ajsyf vzj uflfwá jq ajwqj d qfx mfgnqnifijx ijq rtst.

-Xjf js gzjs mtwf -wjxutsinó jq ijq ufwhmj-, vzj dt rtijwfwé jq uwjhnt, d
hts xtqf qf htxyf rj ifwé utw gnjs uflfit; d dt azjqat f mfhjw vzj hfrnsj
qf hfwwjyf itsij anjsj jq rtst d jq wjyfgqt.

D qzjlt xj atqanó f xfqnw ij qf ajsyf.

Uwjlzsyó qzjlt its Vznotyj fq ajsyjwt vzé rfxj Ujiwt jwf fvzéq, d vzé
wjyfgqt d vzé rtst ywfíf. F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq ajsyjwt:

-Éxyj jx zs kfrtxt ynyjwjwt, vzj mf rzhmtx iífx vzj fsif utw jxyf Rfshmf ij
Fwflós jsxjñfsit zs wjyfgqt ij Rjqnxjsiwf, qngjwyfif utw jq kfrtxt its
Lfnkjwtx, vzj jx zsf ij qfx rjotwjx d ráx gnjs wjuwjxjsyfifx mnxytwnfx vzj
ij rzhmtx fñtx f jxyf ufwyj js jxyj wjnst xj mfs anxyt. Ywfj fxnrnxrt
htsxnlt zs rtst ij qf ráx wfwf mfgnqnifi vzj xj ant jsywj rtstx, sn xj
nrflnsó jsywj mtrgwjx, utwvzj xn qj uwjlzsyfs fqlt, jxyá fyjsyt f qt vzj qj
uwjlzsyfs d qzjlt xfqyf xtgwj qtx mtrgwtx ij xz frt, d, qqjlásitxjqj fq
tíit, qj inhj qf wjxuzjxyf ij qt vzj qj uwjlzsyfs, d rfjxj Ujiwt qf ijhqfwf
qzjlt; d ij qfx htxfx ufxfifx inhj rzhmt ráx vzj ij qfx vzj jxyás utw
ajsnw; d, fzsvzj st ytifx ajhjx fhnjwyf js ytifx, js qfx ráx st djwwf, ij
rtit vzj stx mfhj hwjjw vzj ynjsj jq infgqt js jq hzjwut. Itx wjfqjx qqjaf
utw hfif uwjlzsyf, xn jx vzj jq rtst wjxutsij; vznjwt ijhnw, xn wjxutsij jq
frt utw éq, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj mfgqfit fq tíit; d fxí, xj hwjj vzj jq yfq
rfjxj Ujiwt jxyf wnvzíxnrt; d jx mtrgwj lfqfsyj, htrt inhjs js Nyfqnf d gts
htrufñt, d ifxj qf rjotw anif ijq rzsit; mfgqf ráx vzj xjnx d gjgj ráx vzj
ithj, ytit f htxyf ij xz qjslzf d ij xz rtst d ij xz wjyfgqt.

Js jxyt, atqanó rfjxj Ujiwt, d js zsf hfwwjyf ajsíf jq wjyfgqt, d jq rtst,
lwfsij d xns htqf, hts qfx utxfijwfx ij knjqywt, ujwt st ij rfqf hfwf; d,
fujsfx qj ant its Vznotyj, hzfsit qj uwjlzsyó:

-Iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw finanst: ¿vzé ujoj unqqfrt? ¿Vzé mf ij xjw ij
stxtywtx?. D ajf fvzí rnx itx wjfqjx.

D rfsió f Xfshmt vzj xj qtx injxj f rfjxj Ujiwt, jq hzfq wjxutsinó utw jq
rtst, d inot:

-Xjñtw, jxyj fsnrfq st wjxutsij sn if stynhnf ij qfx htxfx vzj jxyás utw
ajsnw; ij qfx ufxfifx xfgj fqlt, d ij qfx uwjxjsyjx, fqlús yfsyt.

-¡Atyt f Wzx -inot Xfshmt-, st ié dt zs fwinyj utwvzj rj inlfs qt vzj utw
rí mf ufxfit!; utwvzj, ¿vznés qt uzjij xfgjw rjotw vzj dt rjxrt? D uflfw dt
utwvzj rj inlfs qt vzj xé, xjwíf zsf lwfs sjhjifi; ujwt, uzjx xfgj qfx
htxfx uwjxjsyjx, mj fvzí rnx itx wjfqjx, d iílfrj jq xjñtw rtsíxnrt vzé
mfhj fmtwf rn rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef, d js vzé xj jsywjynjsj.

St vznxt ytrfw rfjxj Ujiwt jq insjwt, inhnjsit:

-St vznjwt wjhjgnw fijqfsyfitx qtx uwjrntx, xns vzj mfdfs uwjhjinit qtx
xjwanhntx.

D, ifsit hts qf rfst ijwjhmf itx ltqujx xtgwj jq mtrgwt nevznjwit, js zs
gwnsht xj qj uzxt jq rtst js éq, d, qqjlfsit qf gthf fq tíit, ifgf injsyj
hts injsyj rzd fuwnjxf; d, mfgnjsit mjhmt jxyj fijrás utw jxufhnt ij zs
hwjit, ij tywt gwnsht xj uzxt js jq xzjqt, d fq uzsyt, hts lwfsiíxnrf
uwnjxf, xj kzj rfjxj Ujiwt f utsjw ij wtinqqfx fsyj its Vznotyj, d,
fgwfeásitqj qfx unjwsfx, inot:

-Jxyfx unjwsfx fgwfet, gnjs fxí htrt xn fgwfefwf qfx itx htqzsfx ij
Méwhzqjx, ¡tm wjxzhnyfitw nsxnlsj ij qf df uzjxyf js tqanit fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf!; ¡tm st ofráx htrt xj ijgj fqfgfit hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, ásnrt ij qtx ijxrfdfitx, fwwnrt ij qtx vzj afs f hfjw, gwfet ij qtx
hfíitx, gáhzqt d htsxzjqt ij ytitx qtx ijxinhmfitx!

Vzjió ufxrfit its Vznotyj, fgxtwyt Xfshmt, xzxujsxt jq uwnrt, fyósnyt jq
ufoj, fgtgfit jq ijq wjgzest, htskzxt jq ajsyjwt, d, knsfqrjsyj, jxufsyfitx
ytitx qtx vzj tdjwts qfx wfetsjx ijq ynyjwjwt, jq hzfq uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-D yú, ¡tm gzjs Xfshmt Ufsef!, jq rjotw jxhzijwt d ijq rjotw hfgfqqjwt ijq
rzsit, fqélwfyj, vzj yz gzjsf rzojw Yjwjxf jxyá gzjsf, d éxyf jx qf mtwf js
vzj jqqf jxyá wfxywnqqfsit zsf qngwf ij qnst, d, utw ráx xjñfx, ynjsj f xz
qfit nevznjwit zs ofwwt ijxgthfit vzj hfgj zs gzjs utwvzé ij anst, hts vzj
xj jsywjynjsj js xz ywfgfot.

-Jxt hwjt dt rzd gnjs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj jx jqqf zsf
gnjsfajsyzwfif, d, f st xjw hjqtxf, st qf ywthfwf dt utw qf lnlfsyf
Fsifsitsf, vzj, xjlús rn xjñtw, kzj zsf rzojw rzd hfgfq d rzd ij uwt; d jx
rn Yjwjxf ij fvzjqqfx vzj st xj ijofs rfq ufxfw, fzsvzj xjf f htxyf ij xzx
mjwjijwtx.

-Fmtwf inlt -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, vzj jq vzj qjj rzhmt d fsif
rzhmt, ajj rzhmt d xfgj rzhmt. Inlt jxyt utwvzj, ¿vzé ujwxzfxnós kzjwf
gfxyfsyj ufwf ujwxzfinwrj vzj mfd rtstx js jq rzsit vzj finansjs, htrt qt
mj anxyt fmtwf utw rnx uwtuntx totx? Utwvzj dt xtd jq rjxrt its Vznotyj ij
qf Rfshmf vzj jxyj gzjs fsnrfq mf inhmt, uzjxyt vzj xj mf jxyjsinit fqlús
yfsyt js rnx fqfgfsefx; ujwt htrtvznjwf vzj dt rj xjf, itd lwfhnfx fq
hnjqt, vzj rj ityó ij zs ásnrt gqfsit d htrufxnat, nshqnsfit xnjruwj f
mfhjw gnjs f ytitx, d rfq f snslzst.

-Xn dt yzanjwf insjwtx -inot jq ufoj-, uwjlzsyfwf fq xjñtw rtst vzé rj mf
ij xzhjijw js qf ujwjlwnsfhnós vzj qqjat.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó rfjxj Ujiwt, vzj df xj mfgíf qjafsyfit ij qtx unjx ij
its Vznotyj:

-Df mj inhmt vzj jxyf gjxyjezjqf st wjxutsij f qt utw ajsnw; vzj xn
wjxutsinjwf, st nrutwyfwf st mfgjw insjwtx; vzj, utw xjwanhnt ijq xjñtw its
Vznotyj, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj, ijofwf dt ytitx qtx nsyjwjxjx ijq rzsit. D
fltwf, utwvzj xj qt ijgt, d utw ifwqj lzxyt, vznjwt fwrfw rn wjyfgqt d ifw
uqfhjw f hzfsytx jxyás js qf ajsyf, xns uflf fqlzsf.

Tdjsit qt hzfq jq ajsyjwt, fqjlwj xtgwjrfsjwf, xjñfqó jq qzlfw itsij xj
utiíf utsjw jq wjyfgqt, vzj js zs uzsyt kzj mjhmt.

Its Vznotyj st jxyfgf rzd htsyjsyt hts qfx finansfsefx ijq rtst, utw
ufwjhjwqj st xjw f uwtuóxnyt vzj zs rtst finansfxj, sn qfx ij utw ajsnw, sn
qfx ufxfifx htxfx; d fxí, js yfsyt vzj rfjxj Ujiwt fhtrtifgf jq wjyfgqt, xj
wjynwó its Vznotyj hts Xfshmt f zs wnshós ij qf hfgfqqjwnef, itsij, xns xjw
tíitx ij sfinj, qj inot:

-Rnwf, Xfshmt, dt mj htsxnijwfit gnjs qf jxywfñf mfgnqnifi ijxyj rtst, d
mfqqt utw rn hzjsyf vzj xns izif jxyj rfjxj Ujiwt, xz frt, ijgj ij yjsjw
mjhmt ufhyt, yáhnyt t jxuwjxt, hts jq ijrtsnt.

-Xn jq ufynt jx jxujxt d ijq ijrtsnt -inot Xfshmt-, xns izif ijgj ij xjw
rzd xzhnt ufynt; ujwt, ¿ij vzé uwtajhmt qj jx fq yfq rfjxj Ujiwt yjsjw jxtx
ufyntx?

-St rj jsynjsijx, Xfshmt: st vznjwt ijhnw xnst vzj ijgj ij yjsjw mjhmt
fqlús htshnjwyt hts jq ijrtsnt ij vzj nskzsif jxf mfgnqnifi js jq rtst, hts
vzj lfsj ij htrjw, d ijxuzéx vzj jxyé wnht qj ifwá xz fqrf, vzj jx qt vzj
jxyj zsnajwxfq jsjrnlt uwjyjsij. D máhjrj hwjjw jxyt jq ajw vzj jq rtst st
wjxutsij xnst f qfx htxfx ufxfifx t uwjxjsyjx, d qf xfgnizwíf ijq infgqt st
xj uzjij jxyjsijw f ráx, vzj qfx utw ajsnw st qfx xfgj xn st jx utw
htsojyzwfx, d st ytifx ajhjx; vzj f xtqt Intx jxyá wjxjwafit htsthjw qtx
ynjrutx d qtx rtrjsytx, d ufwf Éq st mfd ufxfit sn utwajsnw, vzj ytit jx
uwjxjsyj. D, xnjsit jxyt fxí, htrt qt jx, jxyá hqfwt vzj jxyj rtst mfgqf
hts jq jxynqt ijq infgqt; d jxytd rfwfanqqfit hórt st qj mfs fhzxfit fq
Xfsyt Tknhnt, d jcfrnsáitqj d xfháitqj ij hzfot js anwyzi ij vznés finansf;
utwvzj hnjwyt jxyá vzj jxyj rtst st jx fxywóqtlt, sn xz frt sn éq fqefs, sn
xfgjs fqefw, jxyfx knlzwfx vzj qqfrfs ozinhnfwnfx, vzj yfsyt fmtwf xj zxfs
js Jxufñf, vzj st mfd rzojwhnqqf, sn ufoj, sn efufyjwt ij anjot vzj st
uwjxzrf ij fqefw zsf knlzwf, htrt xn kzjwf zsf xtyf ij sfnujx ijq xzjqt,
jhmfsit f ujwijw hts xzx rjsynwfx j nlstwfshnfx qf ajwifi rfwfanqqtxf ij qf
hnjshnf. Ij zsf xjñtwf xé dt vzj uwjlzsyó f zst ijxytx knlzwjwtx vzj xn zsf
ujwwnqqf ij kfqif ujvzjñf, vzj yjsíf, xn xj jruwjñfwíf d ufwnwíf, d hzásytx
d ij vzé htqtw xjwífs qtx ujwwtx vzj ufwnjxj. F qt vzj jq xjñtw ozinhnfwnt,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjw fqefit qf knlzwf, wjxutsinó vzj qf ujwwnhf xj jruwjñfwíf,
d ufwnwíf ywjx ujwwnhtx, jq zst ajwij, jq tywt jshfwsfit d jq tywt ij
rjehqf, hts yfq htsinhnós vzj qf yfq ujwwf xj hzgwnjxj jsywj qfx tshj d
ithj ijq iíf, t ij qf sthmj, d vzj kzjxj js qzsjx t js xágfit; d qt vzj
xzhjinó kzj vzj ij fqqí f itx iífx xj rtwíf qf ujwwf ij fmíyf, d jq xjñtw
qjafsyfitw vzjió fhwjinyfit js jq qzlfw utw fhjwyfiíxnrt ozinhnfwnt, htrt
qt vzjifs ytitx t qtx ráx qjafsyfitwjx.

-Hts ytit jxt, vzjwwíf -inot Xfshmt- vzj azjxywf rjwhji inojxj f rfjxj
Ujiwt uwjlzsyfxj f xz rtst xn jx ajwifi qt vzj f azjxywf rjwhji qj ufxó js
qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx; vzj dt ufwf rí yjslt, hts ujwiós ij azjxywf rjwhji,
vzj ytit kzj jrgjqjht d rjsynwf, t utw qt rjstx, htxfx xtñfifx.

-Ytit utiwíf xjw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ujwt dt mfwé qt vzj rj fhtsxjofx,
uzjxyt vzj rj mf ij vzjifw zs st xé vzé ij jxhwúuzqt.

Jxyfsit js jxyt, qqjló rfjxj Ujiwt f gzxhfw f its Vznotyj d ijhnwqj vzj df
jxyfgf js twijs jq wjyfgqt; vzj xz rjwhji ansnjxj f ajwqj, utwvzj qt
rjwjhíf. Its Vznotyj qj htrzsnhó xz ujsxfrnjsyt, d qj wtló uwjlzsyfxj qzjlt
f xz rtst qj inojxj xn hnjwyfx htxfx vzj mfgíf ufxfit js qf hzjaf ij
Rtsyjxnstx mfgífs xnit xtñfifx t ajwifijwfx; utwvzj f éq qj ufwjhíf vzj
yjsífs ij ytit. F qt vzj rfjxj Ujiwt, xns wjxutsijw ufqfgwf, atqanó f ywfjw
jq rtst, d, uzjxyt ijqfsyj ij its Vznotyj d ij Xfshmt, inot:

-Rnwfi, xjñtw rtst, vzj jxyj hfgfqqjwt vznjwj xfgjw xn hnjwyfx htxfx vzj qj
ufxfwts js zsf hzjaf qqfrfif ij Rtsyjxnstx, xn kzjwts kfqxfx t ajwifijwfx.

D, mfhnésitqj qf fhtxyzrgwfif xjñfq, jq rtst xj qj xzgnó js jq mtrgwt
nevznjwit, d, mfgqásitqj, fq ufwjhjw, js jq tíit, inot qzjlt rfjxj Ujiwt:

-Jq rtst inhj vzj ufwyj ij qfx htxfx vzj azjxf rjwhji ant, t ufxó, js qf
inhmf hzjaf xts kfqxfx, d ufwyj ajwnxírnqjx; d vzj jxyt jx qt vzj xfgj, d
st tywf htxf, js hzfsyt f jxyf uwjlzsyf; d vzj xn azjxf rjwhji vznxnjwj
xfgjw ráx, vzj jq anjwsjx ajsnijwt wjxutsijwá f ytit qt vzj xj qj
uwjlzsyfwj, vzj utw fmtwf xj qj mf fhfgfit qf anwyzi, vzj st qj ajsiwá
mfxyf jq anjwsjx, htrt inhmt ynjsj.

-¿St qt ijhíf dt -inot Xfshmt-, vzj st xj rj utiíf fxjsyfw vzj ytit qt vzj
azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, mf inhmt ij qtx fhtsyjhnrnjsytx ij qf hzjaf jwf
ajwifi, sn fzs qf rnyfi?

-Qtx xzhjxtx qt inwás, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; vzj jq ynjrut,
ijxhzgwnitw ij ytifx qfx htxfx, st xj ijof snslzsf vzj st qfx xfvzj f qf
qze ijq xtq, fzsvzj jxyé jxhtsinif js qtx xjstx ij qf ynjwwf. D, utw mtwf,
gfxyj jxyt, d aártstx f ajw jq wjyfgqt ijq gzjs rfjxj Ujiwt, vzj ufwf rí
yjslt vzj ijgj ij yjsjw fqlzsf stajifi.

-¿Hórt fqlzsf? -wjxutsinó rfjxj Ujiwt-: xjxjsyf rnq jshnjwwf js xí jxyj rn
wjyfgqt; iíltqj f azjxf rjwhji, rn xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj jx zsf ij qfx
htxfx ráx ij ajw vzj mtd ynjsj jq rzsit, d tujwngzx hwjinyj, jy sts ajwgnx;
d rfstx f qfgtw, vzj xj mfhj yfwij d yjsjrtx rzhmt vzj mfhjw d vzj ijhnw d
vzj rtxywfw.

Tgjijhnéwtsqj its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, d ansnjwts itsij df jxyfgf jq wjyfgqt
uzjxyt d ijxhzgnjwyt, qqjst utw ytifx ufwyjx ij hfsijqnqqfx ij hjwf
jshjsinifx, vzj qj mfhífs anxytxt d wjxuqfsijhnjsyj. Js qqjlfsit, xj rjynó
rfjxj Ujiwt ijsywt iéq, vzj jwf jq vzj mfgíf ij rfsjofw qfx knlzwfx ijq
fwynknhnt, d kzjwf xj uzxt zs rzhmfhmt, hwnfit ijq rfjxj Ujiwt, ufwf xjwanw
ij nsyéwuwjyj d ijhqfwfitw ij qtx rnxyjwntx ijq yfq wjyfgqt: yjsíf zsf
afwnqqf js qf rfst, hts vzj xjñfqfgf qfx knlzwfx vzj xfqífs.

Uzjxytx, uzjx, ytitx hzfsytx mfgíf js qf ajsyf, d fqlzstx js unj, kwtsyjwt
ijq wjyfgqt, d fhtrtifitx its Vznotyj, Xfshmt, jq ufoj d jq uwnrt js qtx
rjotwjx qzlfwjx, jq ywzofrás htrjseó f ijhnw qt vzj tnwá d ajwá jq vzj qj
tdjwj t anjwj jq hfuíyzqt xnlznjsyj.





Hfuíyzqt CCAN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf lwfhntxf fajsyzwf ijq ynyjwjwt, hts
tywfx htxfx js ajwifi mfwyt gzjsfx


Hfqqfwts ytitx, ynwntx d ywtdfstx; vznjwt ijhnw, ujsinjsyjx jxyfgfs ytitx
qtx vzj jq wjyfgqt rnwfgfs ij qf gthf ijq ijhqfwfitw ij xzx rfwfanqqfx,
hzfsit xj tdjwts xtsfw js jq wjyfgqt hfsynifi ij fyfgfqjx d ywtrujyfx, d
inxufwfwxj rzhmf fwynqqjwíf, hzdt wzrtw ufxó js ynjrut gwjaj, d qzjlt fqeó
qf ate jq rzhmfhmt, d inot:

-Jxyf ajwifijwf mnxytwnf vzj fvzí f azjxfx rjwhjijx xj wjuwjxjsyf jx xfhfif
fq unj ij qf qjywf ij qfx htwósnhfx kwfshjxfx d ij qtx wtrfshjx jxufñtqjx
vzj fsifs js gthf ij qfx ljsyjx, d ij qtx rzhmfhmtx, utw jxfx hfqqjx. Ywfyf
ij qf qngjwyfi vzj int jq xjñtw its Lfnkjwtx f xz jxutxf Rjqnxjsiwf, vzj
jxyfgf hfzynaf js Jxufñf, js utijw ij rtwtx, js qf hnzifi ij Xfsxzjñf, vzj
fxí xj qqfrfgf jsytshjx qf vzj mtd xj qqfrf Efwfltef; d ajfs azjxfx
rjwhjijx fqqí hórt jxyá ozlfsit f qfx yfgqfx its Lfnkjwtx, xjlús fvzjqqt
vzj xj hfsyf:

   Ozlfsit jxyá f qfx yfgqfx its Lfnkjwtx,
   vzj df ij Rjqnxjsiwf jxyá tqanifit.

D fvzjq ujwxtsfoj vzj fqqí fxtrf, hts htwtsf js qf hfgjef d hjuywt js qfx
rfstx, jx jq jrujwfitw Hfwqtrflst, ufiwj uzyfynat ij qf yfq Rjqnxjsiwf, jq
hzfq, rtmíst ij ajw jq thnt d ijxhznit ij xz djwst, qj xfqj f wjñnw; d
fianjwyfs hts qf ajmjrjshnf d fmísht vzj qj wnñj, vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj qj
vznjwj ifw hts jq hjuywt rjinf ithjsf ij htxhtwwtsjx, d fzs mfd fzytwjx vzj
inhjs vzj xj qtx int, d rzd gnjs ifitx; d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj inhmt rzhmfx
htxfx fhjwhf ijq ujqnlwt vzj htwwíf xz mtswf js st uwthzwfw qf qngjwyfi ij
xz jxutxf, inhjs vzj qj inot:

"Mfwyt tx mj inhmt: rnwfiqt".

Rnwjs azjxywfx rjwhjijx yfrgnés hórt jq jrujwfitw azjqaj qfx jxufqifx d
ijof ijxujhmfit f its Lfnkjwtx, jq hzfq df ajs htrt fwwtof, nrufhnjsyj ij
qf hóqjwf, qjotx ij xí jq yfgqjwt d qfx yfgqfx, d unij fuwnjxf qfx fwrfx, d
f its Wtqiás, xz uwnrt, unij uwjxyfif xz jxufif Izwnsifsf, d hórt its
Wtqiás st xj qf vznjwj uwjxyfw, tkwjhnésitqj xz htrufñíf js qf inkíhnq
jruwjxf js vzj xj utsj; ujwt jq afqjwtxt jstofit st qt vznjwj fhjuyfw;
fsyjx, inhj vzj éq xtqt jx gfxyfsyj ufwf xfhfw f xz jxutxf, xn gnjs
jxyzanjxj rjynif js jq ráx mtsit hjsywt ij qf ynjwwf; d, hts jxyt, xj jsywf
f fwrfw, ufwf utsjwxj qzjlt js hfrnst. Azjqafs azjxywfx rjwhjijx qtx totx f
fvzjqqf ytwwj vzj fqqí ufwjhj, vzj xj uwjxzutsj vzj jx zsf ij qfx ytwwjx
ijq fqháefw ij Efwfltef, vzj fmtwf qqfrfs qf Fqofkjwíf; d fvzjqqf ifrf vzj
js fvzjq gfqhós ufwjhj, ajxynif f qt rtwt, jx qf xns ufw Rjqnxjsiwf, vzj
ijxij fqqí rzhmfx ajhjx xj utsíf f rnwfw jq hfrnst ij Kwfshnf, d, uzjxyf qf
nrflnsfhnós js Ufwíx d js xz jxutxt, xj htsxtqfgf js xz hfzynajwnt. Rnwjs
yfrgnés zs szjat hfxt vzj fmtwf xzhjij, vzneá st anxyt ofráx. ¿St ajjs
fvzjq rtwt vzj hfqqfsinht d ufxnyt f ufxt, uzjxyt jq ijit js qf gthf, xj
qqjlf utw qfx jxufqifx ij Rjqnxjsiwf? Uzjx rnwjs hórt qf if zs gjxt js
rnyfi ij qtx qfgntx, d qf uwnjxf vzj jqqf xj if f jxhzunw, d f qnrunáwxjqtx
hts qf gqfshf rfslf ij xz hfrnxf, d hórt xj qfrjsyf, d xj fwwfshf ij ujxfw
xzx mjwrtxtx hfgjqqtx, htrt xn jqqtx yzanjwfs qf hzquf ijq rfqjknhnt. Rnwjs
yfrgnés hórt fvzjq lwfaj rtwt vzj jxyá js fvzjqqtx htwwjitwjx jx jq wjd
Rfwxnqnt ij Xfsxzjñf; jq hzfq, utw mfgjw anxyt qf nsxtqjshnf ijq rtwt,
uzjxyt vzj jwf zs ufwnjsyj d lwfs uwnafit xzdt, qj rfsió qzjlt uwjsijw, d
vzj qj ijs ithnjsytx fetyjx, qqjaásitqj utw qfx hfqqjx fhtxyzrgwfifx ij qf
hnzifi,

   hts hmnqqfitwjx ijqfsyj
   d jsafwfrnjsyt ijywáx;

d ajnx fvzí itsij xfqjs f jojhzyfw qf xjsyjshnf, fzs gnjs fujsfx st
mfgnjsit xnit uzjxyf js jojhzhnós qf hzquf; utwvzj jsywj rtwtx st mfd
"ywfxqfit f qf ufwyj", sn "f uwzjgf d jxyéxj", htrt jsywj stxtywtx.

-Snñt, snñt -inot hts ate fqyf f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, xjlzni azjxywf
mnxytwnf qísjf wjhyf, d st tx rjyánx js qfx hzwafx t ywfsxajwxfqjx; vzj,
ufwf xfhfw zsf ajwifi js qnrunt, rjsjxyjw xts rzhmfx uwzjgfx d wjuwzjgfx.

Yfrgnés inot rfjxj Ujiwt ijxij ijsywt:

-Rzhmfhmt, st yj rjyfx js ingzotx, xnst mfe qt vzj jxj xjñtw yj rfsif, vzj
xjwá qt ráx fhjwyfit; xnlzj yz hfsyt qqfst, d st yj rjyfx js htsywfuzsytx,
vzj xj xzjqjs vzjgwfw ij xtynqjx.

-Dt qt mfwé fxí -wjxutsinó jq rzhmfhmt; d uwtxnlznó, inhnjsit-: Jxyf knlzwf
vzj fvzí ufwjhj f hfgfqqt, hzgnjwyf hts zsf hfuf lfxhtsf, jx qf rjxrf ij
its Lfnkjwtx, f vznjs xz jxutxf, df ajslfif ijq fywjanrnjsyt ijq jsfrtwfit
rtwt, hts rjotw d ráx xtxjlfit xjrgqfsyj, xj mf uzjxyt f qtx rnwfitwjx ij
qf ytwwj, d mfgqf hts xz jxutxt, hwjdjsit vzj jx fqlús ufxfojwt, hts vznjs
ufxó ytifx fvzjqqfx wfetsjx d htqtvzntx ij fvzjq wtrfshj vzj inhjs:

   Hfgfqqjwt, xn f Kwfshnf nijx,
   utw Lfnkjwtx uwjlzsyfi;

qfx hzfqjx st inlt dt fmtwf, utwvzj ij qf uwtqnonifi xj xzjqj jsljsiwfw jq
kfxynint; gfxyf ajw hórt its Lfnkjwtx xj ijxhzgwj, d vzj utw qtx fijrfsjx
fqjlwjx vzj Rjqnxjsiwf mfhj xj stx if f jsyjsijw vzj jqqf qj mf htsthnit, d
ráx fmtwf vzj ajjrtx xj ijxhzjqlf ijq gfqhós, ufwf utsjwxj js qfx fshfx ijq
hfgfqqt ij xz gzjs jxutxt. Rfx, ¡fd, xns ajsyzwf!, vzj xj qj mf fxnit zsf
uzsyf ijq kfqijqqís ij zst ij qtx mnjwwtx ijq gfqhós, d jxyá ujsinjsyj js
jq fnwj, xns utijw qqjlfw fq xzjqt. Ujwt ajnx hórt jq unfitxt hnjqt xthtwwj
js qfx rfdtwjx sjhjxnifijx, uzjx qqjlf its Lfnkjwtx, d, xns rnwfw xn xj
wfxlfwá t st jq wnht kfqijqqís, fxj ijqqf, d rfq xz lwfit qf mfhj gfofw fq
xzjqt, d qzjlt, ij zs gwnsht, qf utsj xtgwj qfx fshfx ij xz hfgfqqt, f
mtwhfofifx htrt mtrgwj, d qf rfsif vzj xj yjslf kzjwyjrjsyj d qj jhmj qtx
gwfetx utw qfx jxufqifx, ij rtit vzj qtx hwzhj js jq ujhmt, utwvzj st xj
hfnlf, f hfzxf vzj st jxyfgf qf xjñtwf Rjqnxjsiwf fhtxyzrgwfif f xjrjofsyjx
hfgfqqjwífx. Ajnx yfrgnés hórt qtx wjqnshmtx ijq hfgfqqt ifs xjñfqjx vzj af
htsyjsyt hts qf afqnjsyj d mjwrtxf hfwlf vzj qqjaf js xz xjñtw d js xz
xjñtwf. Ajnx hórt azjqajs qfx jxufqifx d xfqjs ij qf hnzifi, d fqjlwjx d
wjlthnofitx ytrfs ij Ufwíx qf aíf. ¡Afnx js ufe, tm ufw xns ufw ij
ajwifijwtx frfsyjx! ¡Qqjlzénx f xfqafrjsyt f azjxywf ijxjfif ufywnf, xns
vzj qf ktwyzsf utslf jxytwgt js azjxywt kjqnhj anfoj! ¡Qtx totx ij azjxywtx
frnltx d ufwnjsyjx tx ajfs ltefw js ufe ywfsvznqf qtx iífx, vzj qtx ij
Séxytw xjfs, vzj tx vzjifs ij qf anif!

Fvzí fqeó tywf aje qf ate rfjxj Ujiwt, d inot:

-Qqfsjef, rzhmfhmt; st yj jshzrgwjx, vzj ytif fkjhyfhnós jx rfqf.

St wjxutsinó sfif jq nsyéwuwjyj; fsyjx, uwtxnlznó, inhnjsit:

-St kfqyfwts fqlzstx thntxtx totx, vzj qt xzjqjs ajw ytit, vzj st anjxjs qf
gfofif d qf xzgnif ij Rjqnxjsiwf, ij vznjs injwts stynhnf fq wjd Rfwxnqnt,
jq hzfq rfsió qzjlt ythfw fq fwrf; d rnwjs hts vzé uwnjxf, vzj df qf hnzifi
xj mzsij hts jq xts ij qfx hfrufsfx vzj js ytifx qfx ytwwjx ij qfx
rjevznyfx xzjsfs.

-¡Jxt st! -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-: js jxyt ij qfx hfrufsfx fsif rzd
nruwtunt rfjxj Ujiwt, utwvzj jsywj rtwtx st xj zxfs hfrufsfx, xnst
fyfgfqjx, d zs lésjwt ij izqefnsfx vzj ufwjhjs szjxywfx hmnwnrífx; d jxyt
ij xtsfw hfrufsfx js Xfsxzjñf xns izif vzj jx zs lwfs inxufwfyj.

Qt hzfq tíit utw rfjxj Ujiwt, hjxó jq ythfw d inot:

-St rnwj azjxf rjwhji js snñjwífx, xjñtw its Vznotyj, sn vznjwf qqjafw qfx
htxfx yfs utw jq hfgt vzj st xj qj mfqqj. ¿St xj wjuwjxjsyfs utw fmí, hfxn
ij twinsfwnt, rnq htrjinfx qqjsfx ij rnq nruwtunjifijx d inxufwfyjx, d, hts
ytit jxt, htwwjs kjqnhíxnrfrjsyj xz hfwwjwf, d xj jxhzhmfs st xóqt hts
fuqfzxt, xnst hts firnwfhnós d ytit? Uwtxnlzj, rzhmfhmt, d ijof ijhnw; vzj,
htrt dt qqjsj rn yfqjlt, xn vznjwj wjuwjxjsyj ráx nruwtunjifijx vzj ynjsj
áytrtx jq xtq.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

D jq rzhmfhmt inot:

-Rnwjs hzásyf d hzás qzhnif hfgfqqjwíf xfqj ij qf hnzifi js xnlznrnjsyt ij
qtx itx hfyóqnhtx frfsyjx, hzásyfx ywtrujyfx vzj xzjsfs, hzásyfx izqefnsfx
vzj ythfs d hzásytx fyfgfqjx d fyfrgtwjx vzj wjyzrgfs. Yértrj vzj qtx mfs
ij fqhfsefw, d qtx mfs ij atqajw fyfitx f qf htqf ij xz rnxrt hfgfqqt, vzj
xjwíf zs mtwwjsit jxujyáhzqt.

Anjsit d tdjsit, uzjx, yfsyf rtwnxrf d yfsyt jxywzjsit its Vznotyj,
ufwjhnóqj xjw gnjs ifw fdzif f qtx vzj mzífs; d, qjafsyásitxj js unj, js
ate fqyf, inot:

-St htsxjsynwé dt js rnx iífx d js rn uwjxjshnf xj qj mflf xzujwhmjwíf f
yfs kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt d f yfs fywjanit jsfrtwfit htrt its Lfnkjwtx.
¡Ijyjsjtx, rfq sfhnif hfsfqqf; st qj xnlánx sn ujwxnlánx; xn st, htsrnlt
xtnx js qf gfyfqqf!

D, inhnjsit d mfhnjsit, ijxjsafnsó qf jxufif, d ij zs gwnsht xj uzxt ozsyt
fq wjyfgqt, d, hts fhjqjwfif d szshf anxyf kzwnf, htrjseó f qqtajw
hzhmnqqfifx xtgwj qf ynyjwjwf rtwnxrf, ijwwngfsit f zstx, ijxhfgjefsit f
tywtx, jxywtujfsit f éxyj, ijxywtefsit f fvzéq, d, jsywj tywtx rzhmtx, ynwó
zs fqyngfot yfq, vzj xn rfjxj Ujiwt st xj fgfof, xj jshtlj d flfefuf, qj
hjwhjsfwf qf hfgjef hts ráx kfhnqnifi vzj xn kzjwf mjhmf ij rfxf ij
rfefuás. Ifgf athjx rfjxj Ujiwt, inhnjsit:

-Ijyéslfxj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, d fianjwyf vzj jxytx vzj
ijwwngf, ijxywtef d rfyf st xts ajwifijwtx rtwtx, xnst zsfx knlzwnqqfx ij
ufxyf. ¡Rnwj, ujhfitw ij rí, vzj rj ijxywzdj d jhmf f ujwijw ytif rn
mfhnjsif!

Rfx st utw jxyt ijofgf ij rjszijfw its Vznotyj hzhmnqqfifx, rfsitgqjx,
yfotx d wjajxjx htrt qqtanitx. Knsfqrjsyj, js rjstx ij itx hwjitx int hts
ytit jq wjyfgqt js jq xzjqt, mjhmfx ujifetx d ijxrjszefifx ytifx xzx
ofwhnfx d knlzwfx: jq wjd Rfwxnqnt, rfq mjwnit, d jq jrujwfitw Hfwqtrflst,
ufwynif qf htwtsf d qf hfgjef js itx ufwyjx. Fqgtwtyóxj jq xjsfit ij qtx
tdjsyjx, mzdóxj jq rtst utw qtx yjofitx ij qf ajsyfsf, yjrnó jq uwnrt,
fhtgfwióxj jq ufoj, d mfxyf jq rjxrt Xfshmt Ufsef yzat ufatw lwfsiíxnrt,
utwvzj, htrt éq ozwó ijxuzéx ij ufxfif qf gtwwfxhf, ofráx mfgíf anxyt f xz
xjñtw hts yfs ijxfynsfif hóqjwf. Mjhmt, uzjx, jq ljsjwfq ijxywtet ijq
wjyfgqt, xtxjlóxj zs utht its Vznotyj d inot:

-Vznxnjwf dt yjsjw fvzí ijqfsyj js jxyj uzsyt ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj st hwjjs,
sn vznjwjs hwjjw, ij hzásyt uwtajhmt xjfs js jq rzsit qtx hfgfqqjwtx
fsifsyjx: rnwjs, xn st rj mfqqfwf dt fvzí uwjxjsyj, vzé kzjwf ijq gzjs its
Lfnkjwtx d ij qf mjwrtxf Rjqnxjsiwf; f gzjs xjlzwt vzj éxyf kzjwf df qf
mtwf vzj qtx mzgnjwfs fqhfsefit jxytx hfsjx, d qjx mzgnjwfs mjhmt fqlús
ijxflznxfit. Js wjxtqzhnós, ¡anaf qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf xtgwj hzfsyfx htxfx
mtd anajs js qf ynjwwf!

-¡Anafs js mtwf gzjsf -inot f jxyf xfeós hts ate jskjwrnef rfjxj Ujiwt-, d
rzjwf dt, uzjx xtd yfs ijxinhmfit vzj uzjit ijhnw hts jq wjd its Wtiwnlt:

   Fdjw kzn xjñtw ij Jxufñf...
   d mtd st yjslt zsf fqrjsf
   vzj uzjif ijhnw vzj jx ríf!

St mf rjinf mtwf, sn fzs zs rjinfst rtrjsyt, vzj rj an xjñtw ij wjdjx d ij
jrujwfitwjx, qqjsfx rnx hfgfqqjwnefx d rnx htkwjx d xfhtx ij nsknsnytx
hfgfqqtx d ij nsszrjwfgqjx lfqfx, d fltwf rj ajt ijxtqfit d fgfynit, utgwj
d rjsinlt, d, xtgwj ytit, xns rn rtst, vzj f kj vzj uwnrjwt vzj qj azjqaf f
rn utijw rj mfs ij xzifw qtx injsyjx; d ytit utw qf kzwnf rfq htsxnijwfif
ijxyj xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, ij vznjs xj inhj vzj frufwf uzunqtx, d jsijwjef
yzjwytx, d mfhj tywfx tgwfx hfwnyfynafx; d js rí xtqt mf ajsnit f
kfqyfw xz nsyjshnós ljsjwtxf, vzj xjfs gjsinytx d fqfgfitx qtx hnjqtx, fqqá
itsij ynjsjs ráx qjafsyfitx xzx fxnjsytx. Js kns, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj
Knlzwf mfgíf ij xjw fvzjq vzj mfgíf ij ijxknlzwfw qfx rífx.

Jsyjwsjhnóxj Xfshmt Ufsef hts qfx wfetsjx ij rfjxj Ujiwt, d iíotqj:

-St qqtwjx, rfjxj Ujiwt, sn yj qfrjsyjx, vzj rj vznjgwfx jq htwfeós; utwvzj
yj mflt xfgjw vzj jx rn xjñtw its Vznotyj yfs hfyóqnht d jxhwzuzqtxt
hwnxynfst, vzj xn éq hfj js qf hzjsyf ij vzj yj mf mjhmt fqlús flwfant, yj
qt xfgwá d yj qt vzjwwá uflfw d xfynxkfhjw hts rzhmfx ajsyfofx.

-Hts vzj rj uflfxj jq xjñtw its Vznotyj fqlzsf ufwyj ij qfx mjhmzwfx vzj rj
mf ijxmjhmt, vzjifwíf htsyjsyt, d xz rjwhji fxjlzwfwíf xz htshnjshnf,
utwvzj st xj uzjij xfqafw vznjs ynjsj qt fojst htsywf qf atqzsyfi ij xz
izjñt d st qt wjxynyzdj.

-Fxí jx -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt mfxyf fmtwf dt st xé vzj yjslf sfif
azjxywt, rfjxj Ujiwt.

-¿Hórt st? -wjxutsinó rfjxj Ujiwt-; d jxyfx wjqnvznfx vzj jxyás utw jxyj
izwt d jxyéwnq xzjqt, ¿vznés qfx jxufwhnó d fsnvznqó, xnst qf kzjwef
nsajshngqj ijxj utijwtxt gwfet?, d ¿húdtx jwfs xzx hzjwutx xnst rítx?, d
¿hts vznés rj xzxyjsyfgf dt xnst hts jqqtx?

-Fmtwf fhfgt ij hwjjw -inot f jxyj uzsyt its Vznotyj- qt vzj tywfx rzhmfx
ajhjx mj hwjíit: vzj jxytx jshfsyfitwjx vzj rj ujwxnlzjs st mfhjs xnst
utsjwrj qfx knlzwfx htrt jqqfx xts ijqfsyj ij qtx totx, d qzjlt rj qfx
rzifs d ywzjhfs js qfx vzj jqqtx vznjwjs. Wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj tx inlt,
xjñtwjx vzj rj tíx, vzj f rí rj ufwjhnó ytit qt vzj fvzí mf ufxfit vzj
ufxfgf fq unj ij qf qjywf: vzj Rjqnxjsiwf jwf Rjqnxjsiwf, its Lfnkjwtx its
Lfnkjwtx, Rfwxnqnt Rfwxnqnt, d Hfwqtrflst Hfwqtrflst: utw jxt xj rj fqyjwó
qf hóqjwf, d, utw hzruqnw hts rn uwtkjxnós ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, vznxj ifw
fdzif d kfatw f qtx vzj mzífs, d hts jxyj gzjs uwtuóxnyt mnhj qt vzj mfgénx
anxyt; xn rj mf xfqnit fq wjaéx, st jx hzquf ríf, xnst ij qtx rfqtx vzj rj
ujwxnlzjs; d, hts ytit jxyt, ijxyj rn djwwt, fzsvzj st mf uwthjinit ij
rfqnhnf, vznjwt dt rnxrt htsijsfwrj js htxyfx: ajf rfjxj Ujiwt qt vzj
vznjwj utw qfx knlzwfx ijxmjhmfx, vzj dt rj tkwjeht f ufláwxjqt qzjlt, js
gzjsf d htwwnjsyj rtsjif hfxyjqqfsf.

Nshqnsóxjqj rfjxj Ujiwt, inhnésitqj:

-St jxujwfgf dt rjstx ij qf nsfzinyf hwnxynfsifi ijq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj
ij qf Rfshmf, ajwifijwt xthtwwjitw d frufwt ij ytitx qtx sjhjxnyfitx d
rjsjxyjwtxtx aflfrzsitx; d fvzí jq xjñtw ajsyjwt d jq lwfs Xfshmt xjwás
rjinfsjwtx d fuwjhnfitwjx, jsywj azjxf rjwhji d rí, ij qt vzj afqjs t
utiífs afqjw qfx df ijxmjhmfx knlzwfx.

Jq ajsyjwt d Xfshmt inojwts vzj fxí qt mfwífs, d qzjlt rfjxj Ujiwt fqeó ijq
xzjqt, hts qf hfgjef rjstx, fq wjd Rfwxnqnt ij Efwfltef, d inot:

-Df xj ajj hzás nrutxngqj jx atqajw f jxyj wjd f xz xjw uwnrjwt; d fxí, rj
ufwjhj, xfqat rjotw oznhnt, vzj xj rj ié utw xz rzjwyj, kns d fhfgfrnjsyt
hzfywt wjfqjx d rjint.

-¡Fijqfsyj! -inot its Vznotyj.

-Uzjx utw jxyf fgjwyzwf ij fwwngf fgfot -uwtxnlznó rfjxj Ujiwt, ytrfsit js
qfx rfstx fq ufwynit jrujwfitw Hfwqtrflst-, st xjwíf rzhmt vzj uninjxj dt
hnsht wjfqjx d zs hzfwynqqt.

-St jx utht -inot Xfshmt.

-Sn rzhmt -wjuqnhó jq ajsyjwt-; réinjxj qf ufwynif d xjñáqjsxjqj hnsht
wjfqjx.

-Iésxjqj ytitx hnsht d hzfwynqqt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj st jxyá js zs
hzfwynqqt ráx f rjstx qf rtsyf ijxyf styfgqj ijxlwfhnf; d fhfgj uwjxyt
rfjxj Ujiwt, vzj xj mfhj mtwf ij hjsfw, d dt yjslt hnjwytx gfwwzsytx ij
mfrgwj.

-Utw jxyf knlzwf -inot rfjxj Ujiwt- vzj jxyá xns sfwnhjx d zs tot rjstx,
vzj jx ij qf mjwrtxf Rjqnxjsiwf, vznjwt, d rj utslt js qt ozxyt, itx wjfqjx
d ithj rfwfajiíx.

-Fzs fmí xjwíf jq infgqt -inot its Vznotyj-, xn df st jxyzanjxj Rjqnxjsiwf
hts xz jxutxt, utw qt rjstx, js qf wfdf ij Kwfshnf; utwvzj jq hfgfqqt js
vzj ngfs, f rí rj ufwjhnó vzj fsyjx atqfgf vzj htwwíf; d fxí, st mfd ufwf
vzé ajsijwrj f rí jq lfyt utw qnjgwj, uwjxjsyásitrj fvzí f Rjqnxjsiwf
ijxsfwnlfif, jxyfsit qf tywf, xn anjsj f rfst, fmtwf mtqlásitxj js Kwfshnf
hts xz jxutxt f unjwsf yjsinif. Fdzij Intx hts qt xzdt f hfif zst, xjñtw
rfjxj Ujiwt, d hfrnsjrtx ytitx hts unj qqfst d hts nsyjshnós xfsf. D
uwtxnlf.

Rfjxj Ujiwt, vzj ant vzj its Vznotyj nevznjwijfgf d vzj atqaíf f xz
uwnrjw yjrf, st vznxt vzj xj qj jxhfufxj; d fxí, qj inot:

-Éxyf st ijgj ij xjw Rjqnxjsiwf, xnst fqlzsf ij qfx itshjqqfx vzj qf
xjwaífs; d fxí, hts xjxjsyf rfwfajiíx vzj rj ijs utw jqqf vzjifwé htsyjsyt
d gnjs uflfit.

Ijxyf rfsjwf kzj utsnjsit uwjhnt f tywfx rzhmfx ijxywtefifx knlzwfx, vzj
ijxuzéx qtx rtijwfwts qtx itx ozjhjx áwgnywtx, hts xfynxkfhnós ij qfx
ufwyjx, vzj qqjlfwts f hzfwjsyf wjfqjx d ywjx hzfwynqqtx; d, fijráx ijxyt,
vzj qzjlt qt ijxjrgtqxó Xfshmt, uninó rfjxj Ujiwt itx wjfqjx utw jq ywfgfot
ij ytrfw jq rtst.

-Iáxjqtx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, st ufwf ytrfw jq rtst, xnst qf rtsf; d
ithnjsytx injwf dt fmtwf js fqgwnhnfx f vznjs rj inojwf hts hjwynizrgwj vzj
qf xjñtwf itñf Rjqnxjsiwf d jq xjñtw its Lfnkjwtx jxyfgfs df js Kwfshnf d
jsywj qtx xzdtx.

-Snslzst stx qt utiwá ijhnw rjotw vzj rn rtst -inot rfjxj Ujiwt-, ujwt st
mfgwá infgqt vzj fmtwf qj ytrj; fzsvzj nrflnst vzj jq hfwnñt d qf mfrgwj qj
mfs ij ktwefw f vzj rj gzxvzj jxyf sthmj, d frfsjhjwá Intx d ajwértstx.

Js wjxtqzhnós, qf gtwwfxhf ijq wjyfgqt xj fhfgó d ytitx hjsfwts js ufe d js
gzjsf htrufñíf, f htxyf ij its Vznotyj, vzj jwf qngjwfq js ytit jxywjrt.

Fsyjx vzj frfsjhnjxj, xj kzj jq vzj qqjafgf qfx qfsefx d qfx fqfgfwifx, d
df ijxuzéx ij frfsjhnit, xj ansnjwts f ijxujinw ij its Vznotyj jq uwnrt d
jq ufoj: jq zst, ufwf atqajwxj f xz ynjwwf; d jq tywt, f uwtxjlznw xz
hfrnst, ufwf fdzif ijq hzfq qj int its Vznotyj zsf ithjsf ij wjfqjx. Rfjxj
Ujiwt st vznxt atqajw f jsywfw js ráx inrjx sn inwjyjx hts its Vznotyj, f
vznjs éq htsthíf rzd gnjs, d fxí, rfiwzló fsyjx vzj jq xtq, d, htlnjsit qfx
wjqnvznfx ij xz wjyfgqt d f xz rtst, xj kzj yfrgnés f gzxhfw xzx fajsyzwfx.
Jq ajsyjwt, vzj st htsthíf f its Vznotyj, yfs firnwfit qj yjsífs xzx
qthzwfx htrt xz qngjwfqnifi. Knsfqrjsyj, Xfshmt qj ufló rzd gnjs, utw twijs
ij xz xjñtw, d, ijxuninésitxj iéq, hfxn f qfx thmt ijq iíf ijofwts qf ajsyf
d xj uzxnjwts js hfrnst, itsij qtx ijofwjrtx nw; vzj fxí htsanjsj ufwf ifw
qzlfw f htsyfw tywfx htxfx ujwyjsjhnjsyjx f qf ijhqfwfhnós ijxyf kfrtxf
mnxytwnf.





Hfuíyzqt CCANN. Itsij xj if hzjsyf vznésjx jwfs rfjxj Ujiwt d xz rtst, hts
jq rfq xzhjxt vzj its Vznotyj yzat js qf fajsyzwf ijq wjgzest, vzj st qf
fhfgó htrt éq vznxnjwf d htrt qt yjsíf ujsxfit


Jsywf Hnij Mfrjyj, htwtsnxyf ijxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf, hts jxyfx ufqfgwfx js
jxyj hfuíyzqt: ''Ozwt htrt hfyóqnht hwnxynfst...''; f qt vzj xz ywfizhytw
inhj vzj jq ozwfw Hnij Mfrjyj htrt hfyóqnht hwnxynfst, xnjsit éq rtwt, htrt
xns izif qt jwf, st vznxt ijhnw tywf htxf xnst vzj, fxí htrt jq hfyóqnht
hwnxynfst hzfsit ozwf, ozwf, t ijgj ozwfw, ajwifi, d ijhnwqf js qt vzj
inojwj, fxí éq qf ijhíf, htrt xn ozwfwf htrt hwnxynfst hfyóqnht, js qt vzj
vzjwíf jxhwngnw ij its Vznotyj, jxujhnfqrjsyj js ijhnw vznés jwf rfjxj
Ujiwt, d vznés jq rtst finanst vzj ywfíf firnwfitx ytitx fvzjqqtx uzjgqtx
hts xzx finansfsefx.

Inhj, uzjx, vzj gnjs xj fhtwifwá, jq vzj mzgnjwj qjíit qf uwnrjwf ufwyj
ijxyf mnxytwnf, ij fvzjq Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj, f vznjs, jsywj tywtx lfqjtyjx,
int qngjwyfi its Vznotyj js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, gjsjknhnt vzj ijxuzéx qj kzj rfq
flwfijhnit d ujtw uflfit ij fvzjqqf ljsyj rfqnlsf d rfq fhtxyzrgwfif. Jxyj
Lnséx ij Ufxfrtsyj, f vznjs its Vznotyj qqfrfgf Lnsjxnqqt ij Ufwfunqqf, kzj
jq vzj mzwyó f Xfshmt Ufsef jq wzhnt; vzj, utw st mfgjwxj uzjxyt jq hórt sn
jq hzásit js qf uwnrjwf ufwyj, utw hzquf ij qtx nruwjxtwjx, mf ifit js vzé
jsyjsijw f rzhmtx, vzj fywngzífs f uthf rjrtwnf ijq fzytw qf kfqyf ij
jruwjsyf. Ujwt, js wjxtqzhnós, Lnséx qj mzwyó, jxyfsit xtgwj éq izwrnjsit
Xfshmt Ufsef, zxfsit ij qf ywfef d rtit vzj zxó Gwzsjqt hzfsit, jxyfsit
Xfhwnufsyj xtgwj Fqgwfhf, qj xfhó jq hfgfqqt ij jsywj qfx unjwsfx, d
ijxuzéx qj htgwó Xfshmt, htrt xj mf htsyfit. Jxyj Lnséx, uzjx, yjrjwtxt ij
st xjw mfqqfit ij qf ozxynhnf, vzj qj gzxhfgf ufwf hfxynlfwqj ij xzx
nsknsnyfx gjqqfvzjwífx d ijqnytx, vzj kzjwts yfsytx d yfqjx, vzj éq rnxrt
htruzxt zs lwfs atqzrjs htsyásitqtx, ijyjwrnsó ufxfwxj fq wjnst ij Fwflós d
hzgwnwxj jq tot nevznjwit, fhtrtiásitxj fq tknhnt ij ynyjwjwt; vzj jxyt d
jq ozlfw ij rfstx qt xfgíf mfhjw utw jxywjrt.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj ij zstx hwnxynfstx df qngwjx vzj ajsífs ij Gjwgjwíf
htruwó fvzjq rtst, f vznjs jsxjñó vzj, js mfhnésitqj hnjwyf xjñfq, xj qj
xzgnjxj js jq mtrgwt d qj rzwrzwfxj, t qt ufwjhnjxj, fq tíit. Mjhmt jxyt,
fsyjx vzj jsywfxj js jq qzlfw itsij jsywfgf hts xz wjyfgqt d rtst, xj
nsktwrfgf js jq qzlfw ráx hjwhfst, t ij vznjs éq rjotw utiíf, vzé htxfx
ufwynhzqfwjx mzgnjxjs xzhjinit js jq yfq qzlfw, d f vzé ujwxtsfx; d,
qqjaásitqfx gnjs js qf rjrtwnf, qt uwnrjwt vzj mfhíf jwf rtxywfw xz
wjyfgqt, jq hzfq zsfx ajhjx jwf ij zsf mnxytwnf, d tywfx ij tywf; ujwt
ytifx fqjlwjx d wjlthnofifx d htsthnifx. Fhfgfif qf rzjxywf, uwtutsíf qfx
mfgnqnifijx ij xz rtst, inhnjsit fq uzjgqt vzj finansfgf ytit qt ufxfit d
qt uwjxjsyj; ujwt vzj js qt ij utw ajsnw st xj ifgf rfñf. Utw qf wjxuzjxyf
ij hfif uwjlzsyf ujiíf itx wjfqjx, d ij fqlzsfx mfhíf gfwfyt, xjlús ytrfgf
jq uzqxt f qtx uwjlzsyfsyjx; d htrt yfq aje qqjlfgf f qfx hfxfx ij vznjs éq
xfgíf qtx xzhjxtx ij qtx vzj js jqqf rtwfgfs, fzsvzj st qj uwjlzsyfxjs sfif
utw st uflfwqj, éq mfhíf qf xjñf fq rtst, d qzjlt ijhíf vzj qj mfgíf inhmt
yfq d yfq htxf, vzj ajsíf ij rtqij hts qt xzhjinit. Hts jxyt htgwfgf
hwéinyt nsjkfgqj, d fsiágfsxj ytitx ywfx éq. Tywfx ajhjx, htrt jwf yfs
inxhwjyt, wjxutsiíf ij rfsjwf vzj qfx wjxuzjxyfx ajsífs gnjs hts qfx
uwjlzsyfx; d, htrt sfinj qj fuzwfgf sn fuwjyfgf f vzj inojxj hórt fijansfgf
xz rtst, f ytitx mfhíf rtsfx, d qqjsfgf xzx jxvzjwtx.

Fxí htrt jsywó js qf ajsyf, htsthnó f its Vznotyj d f Xfshmt, utw hzdt
htsthnrnjsyt qj kzj káhnq utsjw js firnwfhnós f its Vznotyj d f Xfshmt
Ufsef, d f ytitx qtx vzj js jqqf jxyfgfs; ujwt mzgnéwfqj ij htxyfw hfwt xn
its Vznotyj gfofwf zs utht ráx qf rfst hzfsit htwyó qf hfgjef fq wjd
Rfwxnqnt d ijxywzdó ytif xz hfgfqqjwíf, htrt vzjif inhmt js jq fsyjhjijsyj
hfuíyzqt.

Jxyt jx qt vzj mfd vzj ijhnw ij rfjxj Ujiwt d ij xz rtst.

D, atqanjsit f its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, inlt vzj, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw xfqnit
ij qf ajsyf, ijyjwrnsó ij ajw uwnrjwt qfx wngjwfx ijq wít Jgwt d ytitx
fvzjqqtx htsytwstx, fsyjx ij jsywfw js qf hnzifi ij Efwfltef, uzjx qj ifgf
ynjrut ufwf ytit jq rzhmt vzj kfqyfgf ijxij fqqí f qfx ozxyfx. Hts jxyf
nsyjshnós xnlznó xz hfrnst, utw jq hzfq fsizat itx iífx xns fhtsyjhjwqj
htxf inlsf ij utsjwxj js jxhwnyzwf, mfxyf vzj fq yjwhjwt, fq xzgnw ij zsf
qtrf, tdó zs lwfs wzrtw ij fyfrgtwjx, ij ywtrujyfx d fwhfgzhjx. Fq
uwnshnunt ujsxó vzj fqlús yjwhnt ij xtqifitx ufxfgf utw fvzjqqf ufwyj, d
utw ajwqtx unhó f Wthnsfsyj d xzgnó qf qtrf fwwngf; d hzfsit jxyzat js qf
hzrgwj, ant fq unj ijqqf, f xz ufwjhjw, ráx ij ithnjsytx mtrgwjx fwrfitx ij
inkjwjsyjx xzjwyjx ij fwrfx, htrt xn inoéxjrtx qfsetsjx, gfqqjxyfx,
ufwyjxfsfx, fqfgfwifx d unhfx, d fqlzstx fwhfgzhjx, d rzhmfx wtijqfx. Gfoó
ijq wjhzjxyt d fhjwhóxj fq jxhzfiwós, yfsyt, vzj inxynsyfrjsyj ant qfx
gfsijwfx, ozeló ij qfx htqtwjx d styó qfx jruwjxfx vzj js jqqfx ywfífs,
jxujhnfqrjsyj zsf vzj js zs jxyfsifwyj t onwós ij wfxt gqfsht ajsíf, js jq
hzfq jxyfgf unsyfit rzd fq anat zs fxst htrt zs ujvzjñt xfwijxht, qf hfgjef
qjafsyfif, qf gthf fgnjwyf d qf qjslzf ij kzjwf, js fhyt d utxyzwf htrt xn
jxyzanjwf wjgzesfsit; fqwjijitw iéq jxyfgfs jxhwnytx ij qjywfx lwfsijx
jxytx itx ajwxtx:

   St wjgzesfwts js gfqij
   jq zst d jq tywt fqhfqij.

Utw jxyf nsxnlsnf xfhó its Vznotyj vzj fvzjqqf ljsyj ijgíf ij xjw ijq
uzjgqt ijq wjgzest, d fxí xj qt inot f Xfshmt, ijhqfwásitqj qt vzj js jq
jxyfsifwyj ajsíf jxhwnyt. Iíotqj yfrgnés vzj jq vzj qjx mfgíf ifit stynhnf
ij fvzjq hfxt xj mfgíf jwwfit js ijhnw vzj itx wjlnitwjx mfgífs xnit qtx
vzj wjgzesfwts; ujwt vzj, xjlús qtx ajwxtx ijq jxyfsifwyj, st mfgífs xnit
xnst fqhfqijx. F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef:

-Xjñtw, js jxt st mfd vzj wjufwfw, vzj gnjs uzjij xjw vzj qtx wjlnitwjx vzj
jsytshjx wjgzesfwts ansnjxjs hts jq ynjrut f xjw fqhfqijx ij xz uzjgqt, d
fxí, xj uzjijs qqfrfw hts jsywfrgtx yíyzqtx; hzfsyt ráx, vzj st mfhj fq
hfxt f qf ajwifi ij qf mnxytwnf xjw qtx wjgzesfitwjx fqhfqijx t wjlnitwjx,
htrt jqqtx zsf utw zsf mfdfs wjgzesfit; utwvzj yfs f unvzj jxyá ij wjgzesfw
zs fqhfqij htrt zs wjlnitw.

Knsfqrjsyj, htsthnjwts d xzunjwts htrt jq uzjgqt htwwnit xfqíf f ujqjfw hts
tywt vzj qj htwwíf ráx ij qt ozxyt d ij qt vzj xj ijgíf f qf gzjsf
ajhnsifi.

Kzjxj qqjlfsit f jqqtx its Vznotyj, st hts uthf ujxfizrgwj ij Xfshmt, vzj
szshf kzj frnlt ij mfqqfwxj js xjrjofsyjx otwsfifx. Qtx ijq jxhzfiwós qj
wjhtlnjwts js rjint, hwjdjsit vzj jwf fqlzst ij qtx ij xz ufwhnfqnifi. Its
Vznotyj, fqefsit qf anxjwf, hts ljsynq gwít d htsynsjsyj, qqjló mfxyf jq
jxyfsifwyj ijq fxst, d fqqí xj qj uzxnjwts fqwjijitw ytitx qtx ráx
uwnshnufqjx ijq joéwhnyt, utw ajwqj, firnwfitx hts qf firnwfhnós
fhtxyzrgwfif js vzj hfífs ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qf aje uwnrjwf qj rnwfgfs. Its
Vznotyj, vzj qtx ant yfs fyjsytx f rnwfwqj, xns vzj snslzst qj mfgqfxj sn
qj uwjlzsyfxj sfif, vznxt fuwtajhmfwxj ij fvzjq xnqjshnt, d, wtrunjsit jq
xzdt, fqeó qf ate d inot:

-Gzjstx xjñtwjx, hzfs jshfwjhnifrjsyj uzjit, tx xzuqnht vzj st nsyjwwzruánx
zs wfetsfrnjsyt vzj vznjwt mfhjwtx, mfxyf vzj ajánx vzj tx inxlzxyf d
jskfif; vzj xn jxyt xzhjij, hts qf ráx rísnrf xjñfq vzj rj mflánx utsiwé zs
xjqqt js rn gthf d jhmfwé zsf rtwifef f rn qjslzf.

Ytitx qj inojwts vzj inojxj qt vzj vznxnjxj, vzj ij gzjsf lfsf qj
jxhzhmfwífs. Its Vznotyj, hts jxyf qnhjshnf, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

Dt, xjñtwjx rítx, xtd hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, hzdt jojwhnhnt jx jq ij qfx fwrfx,
d hzdf uwtkjxnós qf ij kfatwjhjw f qtx sjhjxnyfitx ij kfatw d fhzinw f qtx
rjsjxyjwtxtx. Iífx mf vzj mj xfgnit azjxywf ijxlwfhnf d qf hfzxf vzj tx
rzjaj f ytrfw qfx fwrfx f hfif ufxt, ufwf ajslfwtx ij azjxywtx jsjrnltx; d,
mfgnjsit inxhzwwnit zsf d rzhmfx ajhjx js rn jsyjsinrnjsyt xtgwj azjxywt
sjlthnt, mfqqt, xjlús qfx qjdjx ijq izjqt, vzj jxyánx jslfñfitx js yjsjwtx
utw fkwjsyfitx, utwvzj snslús ufwynhzqfw uzjij fkwjsyfw f zs uzjgqt jsyjwt,
xn st jx wjyásitqj ij ywfnitw utw ozsyt, utwvzj st xfgj js ufwynhzqfw vznés
htrjynó qf ywfnhnós utw vzj qj wjyf. Jojruqt ijxyt yjsjrtx js its Injlt
Twióñje ij Qfwf, vzj wjyó f ytit jq uzjgqt efrtwfst, utwvzj nlstwfgf vzj
xtqt Ajqqnit Itqktx mfgíf htrjynit qf ywfnhnós ij rfyfw f xz wjd; d fxí,
wjyó f ytitx, d f ytitx ythfgf qf ajslfsef d qf wjxuzjxyf; fzsvzj gnjs jx
ajwifi vzj jq xjñtw its Injlt fsizat fqlt ijrfxnfit, d fzs ufxó rzd
fijqfsyj ij qtx qírnyjx ijq wjyt, utwvzj st yjsíf ufwf vzé wjyfw f qtx
rzjwytx, f qfx flzfx, sn f qtx ufsjx, sn f qtx vzj jxyfgfs utw sfhjw, sn f
qfx tywfx rjszijshnfx vzj fqqí xj ijhqfwfs; ujwt, ¡afdf!, uzjx hzfsit qf
hóqjwf xfqj ij rfiwj, st ynjsj qf qjslzf ufiwj, fdt sn kwjst vzj qf
htwwnof. Xnjsit, uzjx, jxyt fxí, vzj zst xtqt st uzjij fkwjsyfw f wjnst,
uwtanshnf, hnzifi, wjuúgqnhf sn uzjgqt jsyjwt, vzjif js qnrunt vzj st mfd
ufwf vzé xfqnw f qf ajslfsef ijq wjyt ij qf yfq fkwjsyf, uzjx st qt jx;
utwvzj, ¡gzjst xjwíf vzj xj rfyfxjs f hfif ufxt qtx ijq uzjgqt ij qf Wjqtof
hts vznjs xj qt qqfrf, sn qtx hfetqjwtx, gjwjsojsjwtx, gfqqjsfytx,
ofgtsjwtx, sn qtx ij tywtx strgwjx d fujqqnitx vzj fsifs utw fmí js gthf ij
qtx rzhmfhmtx d ij ljsyj ij utht ráx f rjstx! ¡Gzjst xjwíf, utw hnjwyt, vzj
ytitx jxytx nsxnlsjx uzjgqtx xj htwwnjxjs d ajslfxjs, d fsizanjxjs htsynst
mjhmfx qfx jxufifx xfhfgzhmjx f hzfqvznjw ujsijshnf, utw ujvzjñf vzj kzjxj!
St, st, sn Intx qt ujwrnyf t vznjwf. Qtx afwtsjx uwzijsyjx, qfx wjuúgqnhfx
gnjs htshjwyfifx, utw hzfywt htxfx mfs ij ytrfw qfx fwrfx d ijxjsafnsfw qfx
jxufifx, d utsjw f wnjxlt xzx ujwxtsfx, anifx d mfhnjsifx: qf uwnrjwf, utw
ijkjsijw qf kj hfyóqnhf; qf xjlzsif, utw ijkjsijw xz anif, vzj jx ij qjd
sfyzwfq d inansf; qf yjwhjwf, js ijkjsxf ij xz mtswf, ij xz kfrnqnf d
mfhnjsif; qf hzfwyf, js xjwanhnt ij xz wjd, js qf lzjwwf ozxyf; d xn qj
vznxnéwjrtx fñfinw qf vznsyf, vzj xj uzjij htsyfw utw xjlzsif, jx js
ijkjsxf ij xz ufywnf. F jxyfx hnsht hfzxfx, htrt hfunyfqjx, xj uzjijs
flwjlfw fqlzsfx tywfx vzj xjfs ozxyfx d wfetsfgqjx, d vzj tgqnlzjs f ytrfw
qfx fwrfx; ujwt ytrfwqfx utw snñjwífx d utw htxfx vzj fsyjx xts ij wnxf d
ufxfynjrut vzj ij fkwjsyf, ufwjhj vzj vznjs qfx ytrf hfwjhj ij ytit
wfetsfgqj inxhzwxt; hzfsyt ráx, vzj jq ytrfw ajslfsef nsozxyf, vzj ozxyf st
uzjij mfgjw fqlzsf vzj qt xjf, af ijwjhmfrjsyj htsywf qf xfsyf qjd vzj
uwtkjxfrtx, js qf hzfq xj stx rfsif vzj mflfrtx gnjs f szjxywtx jsjrnltx d
vzj frjrtx f qtx vzj stx fgtwwjhjs; rfsifrnjsyt vzj, fzsvzj ufwjhj fqlt
inknhzqytxt ij hzruqnw, st qt jx xnst ufwf fvzjqqtx vzj ynjsjs rjstx ij
Intx vzj ijq rzsit, d ráx ij hfwsj vzj ij jxuíwnyz; utwvzj Ojxzhwnxyt, Intx
d mtrgwj ajwifijwt, vzj szshf rnsynó, sn uzit sn uzjij rjsynw, xnjsit
qjlnxqfitw szjxywt, inot vzj xz dzlt jwf xzfaj d xz hfwlf qnanfsf; d fxí,
st stx mfgíf ij rfsifw htxf vzj kzjxj nrutxngqj jq hzruqnwqf. Fxí vzj, rnx
xjñtwjx, azjxfx rjwhjijx jxyás tgqnlfitx utw qjdjx inansfx d mzrfsfx f
xtxjlfwxj.

-Jq infgqt rj qqjaj -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt jsywj xí- xn jxyj rn frt st
jx yóqtlt; d xn st qt jx, vzj qt ufwjhj htrt zs lüjat f tywt.

Ytró zs utht ij fqnjsyt its Vznotyj, d, anjsit vzj ytifaíf qj uwjxyfgfs
xnqjshnt, vznxt ufxfw fijqfsyj js xz uqáynhf, htrt ufxfwf sn st xj uzxnjwj
js rjint qf flzijef ij Xfshmt, jq hzfq, anjsit vzj xz frt xj ijyjsíf, ytró
qf rfst utw éq, inhnjsit:

-Rn xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, vzj zs ynjrut xj qqfró jq Hfgfqqjwt ij
qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf d fmtwf xj qqfrf jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx, jx zs mnifqlt
rzd fyjsyfit, vzj xfgj qfyís d wtrfshj htrt zs gfhmnqqjw, d js ytit hzfsyt
ywfyf d fhtsxjof uwthjij htrt rzd gzjs xtqifit, d ynjsj ytifx qfx qjdjx d
twijsfsefx ij qt vzj qqfrfs jq izjqt js qf zñf; d fxí, st mfd ráx vzj mfhjw
xnst ijofwxj qqjafw utw qt vzj éq inojwj, d xtgwj rí xn qt jwwfwjs; hzfsyt
ráx, vzj jqqt xj jxyá inhmt vzj jx sjhjifi htwwjwxj utw xóqt tíw zs
wjgzest, vzj dt rj fhzjwit, hzfsit rzhmfhmt, vzj wjgzesfgf hfif d hzfsit
vzj xj rj fsytofgf, xns vzj sfinj rj kzjxj f qf rfst, d hts yfsyf lwfhnf d
uwtunjifi vzj, js wjgzesfsit dt, wjgzesfgfs ytitx qtx fxstx ijq uzjgqt, d
st utw jxt ijofgf ij xjw mnot ij rnx ufiwjx, vzj jwfs mtswfiíxnrtx; d,
fzsvzj utw jxyf mfgnqnifi jwf nsaninfit ij ráx ij hzfywt ij qtx jxynwfitx
ij rn uzjgqt, st xj rj ifgf itx fwinyjx. D, utwvzj xj ajf vzj inlt ajwifi,
jxujwjs d jxhzhmjs, vzj jxyf hnjshnf jx htrt qf ijq sfifw: vzj, zsf aje
fuwjsinif, szshf xj tqanif.

D qzjlt, uzjxyf qf rfst js qfx sfwnhjx, htrjseó f wjgzesfw yfs wjhnfrjsyj,
vzj ytitx qtx hjwhfstx afqqjx wjyzrgfwts. Ujwt zst ij qtx vzj jxyfgfs ozsyt
f éq, hwjdjsit vzj mfhíf gzwqf ijqqtx, fqeó zs afwfufqt vzj js qf rfst
yjsíf, d intqj yfq ltquj hts éq, vzj, xns xjw utijwtxt f tywf htxf, int hts
Xfshmt Ufsef js jq xzjqt. Its Vznotyj, vzj ant yfs rfqufwfit f Xfshmt,
fwwjrjynó fq vzj qj mfgíf ifit, hts qf qfsef xtgwj rfst, ujwt kzjwts yfsytx
qtx vzj xj uzxnjwts js rjint, vzj st kzj utxngqj ajslfwqj; fsyjx, anjsit
vzj qqtaíf xtgwj éq zs szgqfit ij unjiwfx, d vzj qj frjsfefgfs rnq
jshfwfifx gfqqjxyfx d st rjstx hfsynifi ij fwhfgzhjx, atqanó qfx wnjsifx f
Wthnsfsyj, d f ytit qt vzj xz lfqtuj uzit, xj xfqnó ij jsywj jqqtx,
jshtrjsiásitxj ij ytit htwfeós f Intx, vzj ij fvzjq ujqnlwt qj qngwfxj,
yjrnjsit f hfif ufxt st qj jsywfxj fqlzsf gfqf utw qfx jxufqifx d qj
xfqnjxj fq ujhmt; d f hfif uzsyt wjhtlíf jq fqnjsyt, utw ajw xn qj kfqyfgf.

Ujwt qtx ijq jxhzfiwós xj htsyjsyfwts hts ajwqj mznw, xns ynwfwqj. F Xfshmt
qj uzxnjwts xtgwj xz ozrjsyt, fujsfx azjqyt js xí, d qj ijofwts nw ywfx xz
frt, st utwvzj éq yzanjxj xjsynit ufwf wjlnwqj; ujwt jq wzhnt xnlznó qfx
mzjqqfx ij Wthnsfsyj, xns jq hzfq st xj mfqqfgf zs uzsyt. Fqtslfit, uzjx,
its Vznotyj gzjs ywjhmt, atqanó qf hfgjef d ant vzj Xfshmt ajsíf, d
fyjsinóqj, anjsit vzj snslzst qj xjlzíf.

Qtx ijq jxhzfiwós xj jxyzanjwts fqqí mfxyf qf sthmj, d, utw st mfgjw xfqnit
f qf gfyfqqf xzx htsywfwntx, xj atqanjwts f xz uzjgqt, wjlthnofitx d
fqjlwjx; d xn jqqtx xzunjwfs qf htxyzrgwj fsynlzf ij qtx lwnjltx,
qjafsyfwfs js fvzjq qzlfw d xnynt zs ywtkjt.





Hfuíyzqt CCANNN. Ij htxfx vzj inhj Gjsjsljqn vzj qfx xfgwá vznjs qj qjdjwj,
xn qfx qjj hts fyjshnós


Hzfsit jq afqnjsyj mzdj, qf xzujwhmjwíf jxyá ijxhzgnjwyf, d jx ij afwtsjx
uwzijsyjx lzfwifwxj ufwf rjotw thfxnós. Jxyf ajwifi xj ajwnknhó js its
Vznotyj, jq hzfq, ifsit qzlfw f qf kzwnf ijq uzjgqt d f qfx rfqfx
nsyjshntsjx ij fvzjq nsinlsfit jxhzfiwós, uzxt unjx js utqatwtxf, d, xns
fhtwifwxj ij Xfshmt sn ijq ujqnlwt js vzj qj ijofgf, xj fufwyó yfsyt hzfsyt
qj ufwjhnó vzj gfxyfgf ufwf jxyfw xjlzwt. Xjlzífqj Xfshmt, fywfajxfit js xz
ozrjsyt, htrt vzjif wjkjwnit. Qqjló, js kns, df azjqyt js xz fhzjwit, d fq
qqjlfw, xj ijoó hfjw ijq wzhnt f qtx unjx ij Wthnsfsyj, ytit fsxntxt, ytit
rtqnit d ytit fufqjfit. Fujóxj its Vznotyj ufwf hfyfwqj qfx kjwnifx; ujwt,
htrt qj mfqqfxj xfst ij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef, hts fxfe hóqjwf qj inot:

-¡Yfs js mtwf rfqf xzunxyjx atx wjgzesfw, Xfshmt! D ¿iósij mfqqfxyjx atx
xjw gzjst jq strgwfw qf xtlf js hfxf ijq fmtwhfit? F rúxnhf ij wjgzestx,
¿vzé htsywfuzsyt xj mfgíf ij qqjafw xnst ij afwfufqtx? D ifi lwfhnfx f
Intx, Xfshmt, vzj df vzj tx xfsynlzfwts hts zs ufqt, st tx mnhnjwts jq ujw
xnlszr hwzhnx hts zs fqkfsoj.

-St jxytd ufwf wjxutsijw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj rj ufwjhj vzj mfgqt utw
qfx jxufqifx. Xzgfrtx d fufwyértstx ij fvzí, vzj dt utsiwé xnqjshnt js rnx
wjgzestx, ujwt st js ijofw ij ijhnw vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx mzdjs, d
ijofs f xzx gzjstx jxhzijwtx rtqnitx htrt fqmjñf, t htrt hngjwf, js utijw
ij xzx jsjrnltx.

-St mzdj jq vzj xj wjynwf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj mfx ij xfgjw,
Xfshmt, vzj qf afqjsyíf vzj st xj kzsif xtgwj qf gfxf ij qf uwzijshnf xj
qqfrf yjrjwnifi, d qfx mfefñfx ijq yjrjwfwnt ráx xj fywngzdjs f qf gzjsf
ktwyzsf vzj f xz ásnrt. D fxí, dt htsknjxt vzj rj mj wjynwfit, ujwt st
mznit; d js jxyt mj nrnyfit f rzhmtx afqnjsyjx, vzj xj mfs lzfwifit ufwf
ynjrutx rjotwjx, d ijxyt jxyás qfx mnxytwnfx qqjsfx, qfx hzfqjx, utw st
xjwyj f yn ij uwtajhmt sn f rí ij lzxyt, st yj qfx wjknjwt fmtwf.

Js jxyt, df jxyfgf f hfgfqqt Xfshmt, fdzifit ij its Vznotyj, jq hzfq
fxnrnxrt xzgnó js Wthnsfsyj, d utht f utht xj kzjwts f jrgtxhfw js zsf
fqfrjif vzj mfxyf zs hzfwyt ij qjlzf ij fqqí xj ufwjhíf. Ij hzfsit js
hzfsit ifgf Xfshmt zstx fdjx uwtkzsiíxnrtx d zstx ljrnitx itqtwtxtx; d,
uwjlzsyásitqj its Vznotyj qf hfzxf ij yfs frfwlt xjsynrnjsyt, wjxutsinó
vzj, ijxij qf uzsyf ijq jxunsfet mfxyf qf szhf ijq hjqjgwt, qj itqíf ij
rfsjwf vzj qj xfhfgf ij xjsynit.

-Qf hfzxf ijxj itqtw ijgj ij xjw, xns izif -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, htrt
jwf jq ufqt hts vzj yj injwts qfwlt d yjsinit, yj htlnó ytifx qfx jxufqifx,
itsij jsywfs ytifx jxfx ufwyjx vzj yj izjqjs; d xn ráx yj htlnjwf, ráx yj
itqnjwf.

-¡Utw Intx -inot Xfshmt-, vzj azjxf rjwhji rj mf xfhfit ij zsf lwfs izif, d
vzj rj qf mf ijhqfwfit utw qnsitx yéwrnstx! ¡Hzjwut ij rí! ¿Yfs jshzgnjwyf
jxyfgf qf hfzxf ij rn itqtw vzj mf xnit rjsjxyjw ijhnwrj vzj rj izjqj ytit
ytit fvzjqqt vzj fqhfseó jq ufqt? Xn rj itqnjwfs qtx ytgnqqtx, fús uzinjwf
xjw vzj xj fsizanjwf finansfsit jq utwvzé rj itqífs, ujwt itqjwrj qt vzj rj
rtqnjwts st jx rzhmt finansfw. F qf kj, xjñtw szjxywt frt, jq rfq fojst ij
ujqt hzjqlf, d hfif iíf atd ijxhzgwnjsit ynjwwf ij qt utht vzj uzjit
jxujwfw ij qf htrufñíf vzj hts azjxywf rjwhji yjslt; utwvzj xn jxyf aje rj
mf ijofit fufqjfw, tywf d tywfx hnjsyt atqajwjrtx f qtx rfsyjfrnjsytx ij
rfwwfx d f tywfx rzhmfhmjwífx, vzj xn fmtwf rj mfs xfqnit f qfx jxufqifx,
ijxuzéx rj xfqiwás f qtx totx. Mfwyt rjotw mfwíf dt, xnst vzj xtd zs
gáwgfwt, d st mfwé sfif vzj gzjst xjf js ytif rn anif; mfwyt rjotw mfwíf
dt, azjqat f ijhnw, js atqajwrj f rn hfxf, d f rn rzojw, d f rnx mnotx, d
xzxyjsyfwqf d hwnfwqtx hts qt vzj Intx kzj xjwanit ij ifwrj, d st fsifwrj
ywfx azjxf rjwhji utw hfrnstx xns hfrnst d utw xjsifx d hfwwjwfx vzj st qfx
ynjsjs, gjgnjsit rfq d htrnjsit ujtw. Uzjx, ¡ytrfirj jq itwrnw! Htsyfi,
mjwrfst jxhzijwt, xnjyj unjx ij ynjwwf, d xn vznxnéwjijx ráx, ytrfi tywtx
yfsytx, vzj js azjxywf rfst jxyá jxhzinqqfw, d yjsijtx f ytit azjxywt gzjs
yfqfsyj; vzj vzjrfit ajf dt d mjhmt utqatx fq uwnrjwt vzj int uzsyfif js qf
fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, t, f qt rjstx, fq uwnrjwt vzj vznxt xjw jxhzijwt ij
yfqjx ytsytx htrt ijgnjwts xjw ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx ufxfitx. Ij
qtx uwjxjsyjx st inlt sfif, vzj, utw xjw azjxywf rjwhji zst ijqqtx, qtx
yjslt wjxujyt, d utwvzj xé vzj xfgj azjxf rjwhji zs uzsyt ráx vzj jq infgqt
js hzfsyt mfgqf d js hzfsyt unjsxf.

-Mfwíf dt zsf gzjsf fuzjxyf hts atx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-: vzj fmtwf
vzj afnx mfgqfsit xns vzj sfinj tx afdf f qf rfst, vzj st tx izjqj sfif js
ytit azjxywt hzjwut. Mfgqfi, mnot rít, ytit fvzjqqt vzj tx ansnjwj fq
ujsxfrnjsyt d f qf gthf; vzj, f ywzjht ij vzj f atx st tx izjqf sfif,
yjsiwé dt utw lzxyt jq jskfit vzj rj ifs azjxywfx nrujwynsjshnfx. D xn
yfsyt ijxjánx atqajwtx f azjxywf hfxf hts azjxywf rzojw d mnotx, st ujwrnyf
Intx vzj dt tx qt nrunif; insjwtx yjsénx rítx: rnwfi hzásyt mf vzj jxyf
yjwhjwf aje xfqnrtx ij szjxywt uzjgqt, d rnwfi qt vzj utiénx d ijgénx lfsfw
hfif rjx, d uflftx ij azjxywf rfst.

-Hzfsit dt xjwaíf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- f Ytré Hfwwfxht, jq ufiwj ijq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, vzj azjxywf rjwhji gnjs htsthj, itx izhfitx
lfsfgf hfif rjx, frés ij qf htrnif; hts azjxywf rjwhji st xé qt vzj uzjit
lfsfw, uzjxyt vzj xé vzj ynjsj ráx ywfgfot jq jxhzijwt ijq hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj vzj jq vzj xnwaj f zs qfgwfitw; vzj, js wjxtqzhnós, qtx vzj
xjwanrtx f qfgwfitwjx, utw rzhmt vzj ywfgfojrtx ij iíf, utw rfq vzj xzhjif,
f qf sthmj hjsfrtx tqqf d itwrnrtx js hfrf, js qf hzfq st mj itwrnit
ijxuzéx vzj mf vzj xnwat f azjxywf rjwhji. Xn st mf xnit jq ynjrut gwjaj
vzj jxyzanrtx js hfxf ij its Injlt ij Rnwfsif, d qf onwf vzj yzaj hts qf
jxuzrf vzj xfvzé ij qfx tqqfx ij Hfrfhmt, d qt vzj htrí d gjgí d itwrí js
hfxf ij Gfxnqnt, ytit jq tywt ynjrut mj itwrnit js qf izwf ynjwwf, fq hnjqt
fgnjwyt, xzojyt f qt vzj inhjs nshqjrjshnfx ijq hnjqt, xzxyjsyásitrj hts
wfofx ij vzjxt d rjsiwzltx ij ufs, d gjgnjsit flzfx, df ij fwwtdtx, df ij
kzjsyjx, ij qfx vzj jshtsywfrtx utw jxtx fsizwwnfqjx itsij fsifrtx.

-Htsknjxt -inot its Vznotyj- vzj ytit qt vzj inhjx, Xfshmt, xjf ajwifi.
¿Hzásyt ufwjhj vzj tx ijgt ifw ráx ij qt vzj tx ifgf Ytré Hfwwfxht?

-F rn ufwjhjw -inot Xfshmt-, hts itx wjfqjx ráx vzj azjxywf rjwhji fñfinjxj
hfif rjx rj yjsiwíf utw gnjs uflfit. Jxyt jx hzfsyt fq xfqfwnt ij rn
ywfgfot; ujwt, js hzfsyt f xfynxkfhjwrj f qf ufqfgwf d uwtrjxf vzj azjxywf
rjwhji rj ynjsj mjhmf ij ifwrj jq ltgnjwst ij zsf ísxzqf, xjwíf ozxyt vzj
xj rj fñfinjxjs tywtx xjnx wjfqjx, vzj utw ytitx xjwífs ywjnsyf.

-Jxyá rzd gnjs -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-; d, htsktwrj fq xfqfwnt vzj atx tx
mfgénx xjñfqfit, 23 iífx mf vzj xfqnrtx ij szjxywt uzjgqt: htsyfi, Xfshmt,
wfyf utw hfsynifi, d rnwfi qt vzj tx ijgt, d uflftx, htrt tx yjslt inhmt,
ij azjxywf rfst.

-¡Tm, hzjwut ij rí! -inot Xfshmt-, vzj af azjxywf rjwhji rzd jwwfit js jxyf
hzjsyf, utwvzj js qt ij qf uwtrjxf ij qf ísxzqf xj mf ij htsyfw ijxij jq
iíf vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj qf uwtrjynó mfxyf qf uwjxjsyj mtwf js vzj
jxyfrtx.

-Uzjx, ¿vzé yfsyt mf, Xfshmt, vzj tx qf uwtrjyí? -inot its Vznotyj.

-Xn dt rfq st rj fhzjwit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ijgj ij mfgjw ráx ij ajnsyj
fñtx, ywjx iífx ráx f rjstx.

Intxj its Vznotyj zsf lwfs ufqrfif js qf kwjsyj, d htrjseó f wjíw rzd ij
lfsf, d inot:

-Uzjx st fsizaj dt js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, sn js ytit jq inxhzwxt ij szjxywfx
xfqnifx, xnst itx rjxjx fujsfx, d ¿inhjx, Xfshmt, vzj mf ajnsyj fñtx vzj yj
uwtrjyí qf ísxzqf? Fmtwf inlt vzj vznjwjx vzj xj htsxzrfs js yzx xfqfwntx
jq insjwt vzj ynjsjx rít; d xn jxyt jx fxí, d yú lzxyfx ijqqt, ijxij fvzí
yj qt itd, d gzjs uwtajhmt yj mflf; vzj, f ywzjht ij ajwrj xns yfs rfq
jxhzijwt, mtqlfwérj ij vzjifwrj utgwj d xns gqfshf. Ujwt inrj, uwjafwnhfitw
ij qfx twijsfsefx jxhzijwnqjx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, ¿iósij mfx anxyt
yú, t qjíit, vzj snslús jxhzijwt ij hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj xj mfdf uzjxyt hts xz
xjñtw js yfsyt ráx hzásyt rj mfgénx ij ifw hfif rjx utwvzj tx xnwaf?
Ésywfyj, ésywfyj, rfqfsiwís, ktqqós d ajxynlqt, vzj ytit qt ufwjhjx;
ésywfyj, inlt, utw jq rfwj rflszr ij xzx mnxytwnfx, d xn mfqqfwjx vzj fqlús
jxhzijwt mfdf inhmt, sn ujsxfit, qt vzj fvzí mfx inhmt, vznjwt vzj rj qj
hqfajx js qf kwjsyj, d, utw fñfinizwf, rj mflfx hzfywt rfrtsfx xjqqfifx js
rn wtxywt. Azjqaj qfx wnjsifx, t jq hfgjxywt, fq wzhnt, d azéqajyj f yz
hfxf, utwvzj zs xtqt ufxt ijxij fvzí st mfx ij ufxfw ráx fijqfsyj htsrnlt.
¡Tm ufs rfq htsthnit! ¡Tm uwtrjxfx rfq htqthfifx! ¡Tm mtrgwj vzj ynjsj ráx
ij gjxynf vzj ij ujwxtsf! ¿Fmtwf, hzfsit dt ujsxfgf utsjwyj js jxyfit, d
yfq, vzj f ujxfw ij yz rzojw yj qqfrfwfs xjñtwíf, yj ijxunijx? ¿Fmtwf yj
afx, hzfsit dt ajsíf hts nsyjshnós knwrj d afqjijwf ij mfhjwyj xjñtw ij qf
rjotw ísxzqf ijq rzsit? Js kns, htrt yú mfx inhmt tywfx ajhjx, st jx qf
rnjq... jyh. Fxst jwjx, d fxst mfx ij xjw, d js fxst mfx ij ufwfw hzfsit xj
yj fhfgj jq hzwxt ij qf anif; vzj ufwf rí yjslt vzj fsyjx qqjlfwá jqqf f xz
úqynrt yéwrnst vzj yú hfnlfx d ijx js qf hzjsyf ij vzj jwjx gjxynf.

Rnwfgf Xfshmt f its Vznotyj ij js mnyt js mnyt, js yfsyt vzj qtx yfqjx
anyzujwntx qj ijhíf, d htruzslnóxj ij rfsjwf vzj qj ansnjwts qfx qálwnrfx f
qtx totx, d hts ate itqtwnif d jskjwrf qj inot:

-Xjñtw rít, dt htsknjxt vzj ufwf xjw ijq ytit fxst st rj kfqyf ráx ij qf
htqf; xn azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj utséwrjqf, dt qf ifwé utw gnjs uzjxyf, d qj
xjwanwé htrt ozrjsyt ytitx qtx iífx vzj rj vzjifs ij rn anif. Azjxywf
rjwhji rj ujwitsj d xj izjqf ij rn rthjifi, d fianjwyf vzj xé utht, d vzj
xn mfgqt rzhmt, ráx uwthjij ij jskjwrjifi vzj ij rfqnhnf; rfx, vznjs djwwf
d xj jsrnjsif, f Intx xj jshtrnjsif.

-Rfwfanqqáwfrj dt, Xfshmt, xn st rjehqfwfx fqlús wjkwfshnht js yz htqtvznt.
Fmtwf gnjs, dt yj ujwitst, hts vzj yj jrnjsijx, d hts vzj st yj rzjxywjx ij
fvzí fijqfsyj yfs frnlt ij yz nsyjwéx, xnst vzj uwthzwjx jsxfshmfw jq
htwfeós, d yj fqnjsyjx d fsnrjx f jxujwfw jq hzruqnrnjsyt ij rnx uwtrjxfx,
vzj, fzsvzj xj yfwif, st xj nrutxngnqnyf.

Xfshmt wjxutsinó vzj xí mfwíf, fzsvzj xfhfxj kzjwefx ij kqfvzjef.

Hts jxyt, xj rjynjwts js qf fqfrjif, d its Vznotyj xj fhtrtió fq unj ij zs
tqrt, d Xfshmt fq ij zsf mfdf; vzj jxytx yfqjx áwgtqjx d tywtx xzx
xjrjofsyjx xnjruwj ynjsjs unjx, d st rfstx. Xfshmt ufxó qf sthmj
ujstxfrjsyj, utwvzj jq afwfufqt xj mfhíf ráx xjsynw hts jq xjwjst. Its
Vznotyj qf ufxó js xzx htsynszfx rjrtwnfx; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, injwts qtx
totx fq xzjñt, d fq xfqnw ijq fqgf xnlznjwts xz hfrnst gzxhfsit qfx wngjwfx
ijq kfrtxt Jgwt, itsij qjx xzhjinó qt vzj xj htsyfwá js jq hfuíyzqt
ajsnijwt.





Hfuíyzqt CCNC. Ij qf kfrtxf fajsyzwf ijq gfwht jshfsyfit


Utw xzx ufxtx htsyfitx d utw htsyfw, itx iífx ijxuzéx vzj xfqnjwts ij qf
fqfrjif, qqjlfwts its Vznotyj d Xfshmt fq wít Jgwt, d jq ajwqj kzj ij lwfs
lzxyt f its Vznotyj, utwvzj htsyjruqó d rnwó js éq qf frjsnifi ij xzx
wngjwfx, qf hqfwnifi ij xzx flzfx, jq xtxnjlt ij xz hzwxt d qf fgzsifshnf
ij xzx qívznitx hwnxyfqjx, hzdf fqjlwj anxyf wjstaó js xz rjrtwnf rnq
frtwtxtx ujsxfrnjsytx. Jxujhnfqrjsyj kzj d anst js qt vzj mfgíf anxyt js qf
hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx; vzj, uzjxyt vzj jq rtst ij rfjxj Ujiwt qj mfgíf inhmt
vzj ufwyj ij fvzjqqfx htxfx jwfs ajwifi d ufwyj rjsynwf, éq xj fyjsíf ráx f
qfx ajwifijwfx vzj f qfx rjsynwtxfx, gnjs fq wjaéx ij Xfshmt, vzj ytifx qfx
yjsíf utw qf rjxrf rjsynwf.

Djsit, uzjx, ijxyf rfsjwf, xj qj tkwjhnó f qf anxyf zs ujvzjñt gfwht xns
wjrtx sn tywfx ofwhnfx fqlzsfx, vzj jxyfgf fyfit js qf twnqqf f zs ywtsht
ij zs áwgtq vzj js qf wngjwf jxyfgf. Rnwó its Vznotyj f ytifx ufwyjx, d st
ant ujwxtsf fqlzsf; d qzjlt, xns ráx sn ráx, xj fujó ij Wthnsfsyj d rfsió f
Xfshmt vzj qt rjxrt mnhnjxj ijq wzhnt, d vzj f jsywfrgfx gjxynfx qfx fyfxj
rzd gnjs, ozsyfx, fq ywtsht ij zs áqfrt t xfzhj vzj fqqí jxyfgf. Uwjlzsyóqj
Xfshmt qf hfzxf ij fvzjq xúgnyt fujfrnjsyt d ij fvzjq qnlfrnjsyt. Wjxutsinó
its Vznotyj:

-Mfx ij xfgjw, Xfshmt, vzj jxyj gfwht vzj fvzí jxyá, ijwjhmfrjsyj d xns
utijw xjw tywf htxf js htsywfwnt, rj jxyá qqfrfsit d htsanifsit f vzj jsywj
js éq, d afdf js éq f ifw xthtwwt f fqlús hfgfqqjwt, t f tywf sjhjxnyfif d
uwnshnufq ujwxtsf, vzj ijgj ij jxyfw uzjxyf js fqlzsf lwfsij hznyf, utwvzj
éxyj jx jxynqt ij qtx qngwtx ij qfx mnxytwnfx hfgfqqjwjxhfx d ij qtx
jshfsyfitwjx vzj js jqqfx xj jsywjrjyjs d uqfynhfs: hzfsit fqlús hfgfqqjwt
jxyá uzjxyt js fqlús ywfgfot, vzj st uzjij xjw qngwfit iéq xnst utw qf rfst
ij tywt hfgfqqjwt, uzjxyt vzj jxyés inxyfsyjx jq zst ijq tywt itx t ywjx
rnq qjlzfx, d fzs ráx, t qj fwwjgfyfs js zsf szgj t qj ijufwfs zs gfwht
itsij xj jsywj, d js rjstx ij zs fgwnw d hjwwfw ij totx qj qqjafs, t utw
qtx fnwjx, t utw qf rfw, itsij vznjwjs d fitsij jx rjsjxyjw xz fdzif; fxí
vzj, ¡tm Xfshmt!, jxyj gfwht jxyá uzjxyt fvzí ufwf jq rjxrt jkjhyt; d jxyt
jx yfs ajwifi htrt jx fmtwf ij iíf; d fsyjx vzj éxyj xj ufxj, fyf ozsytx fq
wzhnt d f Wthnsfsyj, d f qf rfst ij Intx, vzj stx lzíj, vzj st ijofwé ij
jrgfwhfwrj xn rj qt uninjxjs kwfnqjx ijxhfqetx.

-Uzjx fxí jx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj ifw f hfif ufxt js
jxytx vzj st xé xn qtx qqfrj inxufwfyjx, st mfd xnst tgjijhjw d gfofw qf
hfgjef, fyjsinjsit fq wjkwás "mfe qt vzj yz frt yj rfsif, d xnésyfyj hts éq
f qf rjxf"; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, utw qt vzj ythf fq ijxhfwlt ij rn
htshnjshnf, vznjwt fiajwynw f azjxywf rjwhji vzj f rí rj ufwjhj vzj jxyj
yfq gfwht st jx ij qtx jshfsyfitx, xnst ij fqlzstx ujxhfitwjx ijxyj wít,
utwvzj js éq xj ujxhfs qfx rjotwjx xfgtlfx ijq rzsit.

Jxyt ijhíf, rnjsywfx fyfgf qfx gjxynfx, Xfshmt, ijoásitqfx f qf uwtyjhnós d
frufwt ij qtx jshfsyfitwjx, hts mfwyt itqtw ij xz ásnrf. Its Vznotyj qj
inot vzj st yzanjxj ujsf ijq ijxfrufwt ij fvzjqqtx fsnrfqjx, vzj jq vzj qtx
qqjafwíf f jqqtx utw yfs qtslnshztx hfrnstx d wjlntsjx yjsiwíf hzjsyf ij
xzxyjsyfwqtx.

-St jsynjsit jxt ij qtlnhztx -inot Xfshmt-, sn mj tíit yfq athfgqt js ytitx
qtx iífx ij rn anif.

-Qtslnshztx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vznjwj ijhnw fufwyfitx; d st jx
rfwfanqqf vzj st qt jsynjsifx, vzj st jxyáx yú tgqnlfit f xfgjw qfyís, htrt
fqlzstx vzj uwjxzrjs vzj qt xfgjs, d qt nlstwfs.

-Df jxyás fyfitx -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. ¿Vzé mjrtx ij mfhjw fmtwf?

-¿Vzé? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Xfsynlzfwstx d qjafw kjwwt; vznjwt ijhnw,
jrgfwhfwstx d htwyfw qf frfwwf hts vzj jxyj gfwht jxyá fyfit.

D, ifsit zs xfqyt js éq, xnlznésitqj Xfshmt, htwyó jq htwijq, d jq gfwht xj
kzj fufwyfsit utht f utht ij qf wngjwf; d hzfsit Xfshmt xj ant tgwf ij itx
afwfx ijsywt ijq wít, htrjseó f yjrgqfw, yjrnjsit xz ujwinhnós; ujwt
snslzsf htxf qj int ráx ujsf vzj jq tíw wtesfw fq wzhnt d jq ajw vzj
Wthnsfsyj uzlsfgf utw ijxfyfwxj, d iíotqj f xz xjñtw:

-Jq wzhnt wjgzesf, htsitqnit ij szjxywf fzxjshnf, d Wthnsfsyj uwthzwf
utsjwxj js qngjwyfi ufwf fwwtofwxj ywfx stxtywtx. ¡Tm hfwíxnrtx frnltx,
vzjiftx js ufe, d qf qthzwf vzj stx fufwyf ij atxtywtx, htsajwynif js
ijxjslfñt, stx azjqaf f azjxywf uwjxjshnf!

D, js jxyt, htrjseó f qqtwfw yfs frfwlfrjsyj vzj its Vznotyj, rtmíst d
htqéwnht, qj inot:

-¿Ij vzé yjrjx, htgfwij hwnfyzwf? ¿Ij vzé qqtwfx, htwfeós ij rfsyjvznqqfx?
¿Vznés yj ujwxnlzj, t vznés yj fhtxf, ásnrt ij wfyós hfxjwt, t vzé yj
kfqyf, rjsjxyjwtxt js qf rnyfi ij qfx jsywfñfx ij qf fgzsifshnf? ¿Utw inhmf
afx hfrnsfsit f unj d ijxhfqet utw qfx rtsyfñfx wnkjfx, xnst xjsyfit js zsf
yfgqf, htrt zs fwhmnizvzj, utw jq xjxlt hzwxt ijxyj flwfifgqj wít, ij itsij
js gwjaj jxufhnt xfqiwjrtx fq rfw inqfyfit? Ujwt df mfgjrtx ij mfgjw
xfqnit, d hfrnsfit, utw qt rjstx, xjyjhnjsyfx t thmthnjsyfx qjlzfx; d xn dt
yzanjwf fvzí zs fxywtqfgnt hts vzj ytrfw qf fqyzwf ijq utqt, dt yj inojwf
qfx vzj mjrtx hfrnsfit; fzsvzj, t dt xé utht, t df mjrtx ufxfit, t
ufxfwjrtx uwjxyt, utw qf qísjf jvznsthnfq, vzj inanij d htwyf qtx itx
htsywfuzjxytx utqtx js nlzfq inxyfshnf.

-D hzfsit qqjlzjrtx f jxf qjñf vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt-,
¿hzásyt mfgwjrtx hfrnsfit?

-Rzhmt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj ij ywjhnjsytx d xjxjsyf lwfitx vzj
htsynjsj jq lqtgt, ijq flzf d ij qf ynjwwf, xjlús jq hóruzyt ij Uytqtrjt,
vzj kzj jq rfdtw htxrólwfkt vzj xj xfgj, qf rnyfi mfgwjrtx hfrnsfit,
qqjlfsit f qf qísjf vzj mj inhmt.

-Utw Intx -inot Xfshmt-, vzj azjxf rjwhji rj ywfj utw yjxynlt ij qt vzj
inhj f zsf ljsynq ujwxtsf, uzyt d lfkt, hts qf fñfinizwf ij rjós, t rjt, t
st xé hórt.

Wnóxj its Vznotyj ij qf nsyjwuwjyfhnós vzj Xfshmt mfgíf ifit fq strgwj d fq
hóruzyt d hzjsyf ijq htxrólwfkt Uytqtrjt, d iíotqj:

-Xfgwáx, Xfshmt, vzj qtx jxufñtqjx d qtx vzj xj jrgfwhfs js Háine ufwf nw f
qfx Nsinfx Twnjsyfqjx, zsf ij qfx xjñfqjx vzj ynjsjs ufwf jsyjsijw vzj mfs
ufxfit qf qísjf jvznsthnfq vzj yj mj inhmt jx vzj f ytitx qtx vzj afs js jq
sfaít xj qjx rzjwjs qtx untotx, xns vzj qjx vzjij snslzst, sn js ytit jq
gfojq qj mfqqfwás, xn qj ujxfs f twt; d fxí, uzjijx, Xfshmt, ufxjfw zsf
rfst utw zs rzxqt, d xn ytufwjx htxf anaf, xfqiwjrtx ijxyf izif; d xn st,
ufxfit mfgjrtx.

-Dt st hwjt sfif ijxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt, hts ytit, mfwé qt vzj azjxf
rjwhji rj rfsif, fzsvzj st xé ufwf vzé mfd sjhjxnifi ij mfhjw jxfx
jcujwnjshnfx, uzjx dt ajt hts rnx rnxrtx totx vzj st stx mfgjrtx fufwyfit
ij qf wngjwf hnsht afwfx, sn mjrtx ijhfsyfit ij itsij jxyás qfx fqjrfñfx
itx afwfx, utwvzj fqqí jxyás Wthnsfsyj d jq wzhnt js jq uwtunt qzlfw it qtx
ijofrtx; d ytrfif qf rnwf, htrt dt qf ytrt fmtwf, atyt f yfq vzj st stx
rtajrtx sn fsifrtx fq ufxt ij zsf mtwrnlf.

-Mfe, Xfshmt, qf fajwnlzfhnós vzj yj mj inhmt, d st yj hzwjx ij tywf, vzj
yú st xfgjx vzé htxf xjfs htqzwtx, qísjfx, ufwfqjqtx, etiífhtx, hqíynhfx,
utqtx, xtqxynhntx, jvznsthntx, uqfsjyfx, xnlstx, uzsytx, rjinifx, ij vzj xj
htrutsj qf jxkjwf hjqjxyj d yjwwjxywj; vzj xn ytifx jxyfx htxfx xzunjwfx, t
ufwyj ijqqfx, anjwfx hqfwfrjsyj vzé ij ufwfqjqtx mjrtx htwyfit, vzé ij
xnlstx anxyt d vzé ij nrálnsjx mjrtx ijofit fywáx d afrtx ijofsit fmtwf. D
yówstyj f ijhnw vzj yj ynjsyjx d ujxvzjx, vzj dt ufwf rí yjslt vzj jxyáx
ráx qnrunt vzj zs uqnjlt ij ufujq qnxt d gqfsht.

Yjsyóxj Xfshmt, d, qqjlfsit hts qf rfst gtsnyfrjsyj d hts ynjsyt mfhnf qf
htwaf nevznjwif, fqeó qf hfgjef d rnwó f xz frt, d inot:

-T qf jcujwnjshnf jx kfqxf, t st mjrtx qqjlfit fitsij azjxf rjwhji inhj, sn
hts rzhmfx qjlzfx.

-Uzjx ¿vzé? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj-, ¿mfx ytufit fqlt?

-¡D fzs fqltx! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

D, xfhzinésitxj qtx ijitx, xj qfaó ytif qf rfst js jq wít, utw jq hzfq
xtxjlfifrjsyj xj ijxqnefgf jq gfwht utw rnyfi ij qf htwwnjsyj, xns vzj qj
rtanjxj fqlzsf nsyjqnljshnf xjhwjyf, sn fqlús jshfsyfitw jxhtsinit, xnst jq
rnxrt hzwxt ijq flzf, gqfsit jsytshjx d xzfaj.

Js jxyt, ijxhzgwnjwts zsfx lwfsijx fhjñfx vzj js qf rnyfi ijq wít jxyfgfs;
d fujsfx qfx mzgt anxyt its Vznotyj, hzfsit hts ate fqyf inot f Xfshmt:

-¿Ajjx? Fqqí, ¡tm frnlt!, xj ijxhzgwj qf hnzifi, hfxynqqt t ktwyfqjef itsij
ijgj ij jxyfw fqlús hfgfqqjwt tuwnrnit, t fqlzsf wjnsf, nskfsyf t uwnshjxf
rfqufwfif, ufwf hzdt xthtwwt xtd fvzí ywfíit.

-¿Vzé infgqtx ij hnzifi, ktwyfqjef t hfxynqqt inhj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw?
-inot Xfshmt-. ¿St jhmf ij ajw vzj fvzéqqfx xts fhjñfx vzj jxyás js jq wít,
itsij xj rzjqj jq ywnlt?

-Hfqqf, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj, fzsvzj ufwjhjs fhjñfx, st qt xts; d
df yj mj inhmt vzj ytifx qfx htxfx ywfxywzjhfs d rzifs ij xz xjw sfyzwfq
qtx jshfsytx. St vznjwt ijhnw vzj qfx rzifs ij js zst js tywt xjw
wjfqrjsyj, xnst vzj qt ufwjhj, htrt qt rtxywó qf jcujwnjshnf js qf
ywfsxktwrfhnós ij Izqhnsjf, úsnht wjkzlnt ij rnx jxujwfsefx.

Js jxyt, jq gfwht, jsywfit js qf rnyfi ij qf htwwnjsyj ijq wít, htrjseó f
hfrnsfw st yfs qjsyfrjsyj htrt mfxyf fqqí. Qtx rtqnsjwtx ij qfx fhjñfx, vzj
anjwts ajsnw fvzjq gfwht utw jq wít, d vzj xj ngf f jrgthfw utw jq wfzifq
ij qfx wzjifx, xfqnjwts hts uwjxyjef rzhmtx ijqqtx hts afwfx qfwlfx f
ijyjsjwqj, d, htrt xfqífs jsmfwnsfitx, d hzgnjwytx qtx wtxywtx d qtx
ajxynitx ijq utqat ij qf mfwnsf, wjuwjxjsyfgfs zsf rfqf anxyf. Ifgfs athjx
lwfsijx, inhnjsit:

-¡Ijrtsntx ij mtrgwjx! ¿Iósij afnx? ¿Ajsíx ijxjxujwfitx? ¿Vzé vzjwénx,
fmtlfwtx d mfhjwtx ujifetx js jxyfx wzjifx?

-¿St yj inoj dt, Xfshmt -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-, vzj mfgífrtx
qqjlfit itsij mj ij rtxywfw f ió qqjlf jq afqtw ij rn gwfet? Rnwf vzé ij
rfqfsiwnsjx d ktqqtsjx rj xfqjs fq jshzjsywt, rnwf hzásytx ajxynlqtx xj rj
tutsjs, rnwf hzásyfx kjfx hfyfizwfx stx mfhjs hthtx... Uzjx ¡fmtwf qt
ajwénx, gjqqfhtx!

D, uzjxyt js unj js jq gfwht, hts lwfsijx athjx htrjseó f frjsfefw f qtx
rtqnsjwtx, inhnésitqjx:

-Hfsfqqf rfqafif d ujtw fhtsxjofif, ijofi js xz qngjwyfi d qngwj fqgjiwít f
qf ujwxtsf vzj js jxf azjxywf ktwyfqjef t uwnxnós yjsénx tuwnrnif, fqyf t
gfof, ij hzfqvznjwf xzjwyj t hfqnifi vzj xjf, vzj dt xtd its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, qqfrfit jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx utw tywt strgwj, f vznjs jxyá
wjxjwafif utw twijs ij qtx fqytx hnjqtx jq ifw kns kjqnhj f jxyf fajsyzwf.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, jhmó rfst f xz jxufif d htrjseó f jxlwnrnwqf js jq fnwj
htsywf qtx rtqnsjwtx; qtx hzfqjx, tdjsit d st jsyjsinjsit fvzjqqfx
xfsijhjx, xj uzxnjwts hts xzx afwfx f ijyjsjw jq gfwht, vzj df ngf jsywfsit
js jq wfzifq d hfsfq ij qfx wzjifx.

Uúxtxj Xfshmt ij wtinqqfx, uninjsit ijatyfrjsyj fq hnjqt qj qngwfxj ij yfs
rfsnknjxyt ujqnlwt, htrt qt mnet, utw qf nsizxywnf d uwjxyjef ij qtx
rtqnsjwtx, vzj, tutsnésitxj hts xzx ufqtx fq gfwht, qj ijyzanjwts, ujwt st
ij rfsjwf vzj ijofxjs ij ywfxytwsfw jq gfwht d ifw hts its Vznotyj d hts
Xfshmt fq ywfaéx js jq flzf; ujwt aístqj gnjs f its Vznotyj, vzj xfgíf
sfifw htrt zs lfsxt, fzsvzj jq ujxt ij qfx fwrfx qj qqjaó fq ktsit itx
ajhjx; d xn st kzjwf utw qtx rtqnsjwtx, vzj xj fwwtofwts fq flzf d qtx
xfhfwts htrt js ujxt f jsywfrgtx, fqqí mfgíf xnit Ywtdf ufwf qtx itx.

Uzjxytx, uzjx, js ynjwwf, ráx rtofitx vzj rzjwytx ij xji, Xfshmt, uzjxyt ij
wtinqqfx, qfx rfstx ozsyfx d qtx totx hqfafitx fq hnjqt, uninó f Intx hts
zsf qfwlf d ijatyf uqjlfwnf qj qngwfxj ij fqqí fijqfsyj ij qtx fywjanitx
ijxjtx d fhtrjynrnjsytx ij xz xjñtw.

Qqjlfwts js jxyt qtx ujxhfitwjx izjñtx ijq gfwht, f vznjs mfgífs mjhmt
ujifetx qfx wzjifx ij qfx fhjñfx; d, anésitqj wtyt, fhtrjynjwts f ijxszifw
f Xfshmt, d f ujinw f its Vznotyj xj qt uflfxj; jq hzfq, hts lwfs xtxnjlt,
htrt xn st mzgnjwf ufxfit sfif utw éq, inot f qtx rtqnsjwtx d ujxhfitwjx
vzj éq uflfwíf jq gfwht ij gtsíxnrf lfsf, hts htsinhnós vzj qj injxjs qngwj
d xns hfzyjqf f qf ujwxtsf t ujwxtsfx vzj js fvzjq xz hfxynqqt jxyfgfs
tuwnrnifx.

-¿Vzé ujwxtsfx t vzé hfxynqqt inhj -wjxutsinó zst ij qtx rtqnsjwtx-, mtrgwj
xns oznhnt? ¿Vznéwjxyj qqjafw utw ajsyzwf qfx vzj anjsjs f rtqjw ywnlt f
jxyfx fhjñfx?

-¡Gfxyf! -inot jsywj xí its Vznotyj-. Fvzí xjwá uwjinhfw js ijxnjwyt
vzjwjw wjizhnw f jxyf hfsfqqf f vzj utw wzjltx mflf anwyzi fqlzsf. D js
jxyf fajsyzwf xj ijgjs ij mfgjw jshtsywfit itx afqnjsyjx jshfsyfitwjx, d jq
zst jxytwgf qt vzj jq tywt nsyjsyf: jq zst rj ijufwó jq gfwht, d jq tywt
int htsrnlt fq ywfaéx. Intx qt wjrjinj, vzj ytit jxyj rzsit jx rávznsfx d
ywfefx, htsywfwnfx zsfx ij tywfx. Dt st uzjit ráx.

D, fqefsit qf ate, uwtxnlznó inhnjsit, d rnwfsit f qfx fhjñfx:

-Frnltx, hzfqjxvznjwf vzj xjánx, vzj js jxf uwnxnós vzjiánx jshjwwfitx,
ujwitsfirj; vzj, utw rn ijxlwfhnf d utw qf azjxywf, dt st tx uzjit xfhfw ij
azjxywf hznyf. Ufwf tywt hfgfqqjwt ijgj ij jxyfw lzfwifif d wjxjwafif jxyf
fajsyzwf.

Js inhnjsit jxyt, xj htshjwyó hts qtx ujxhfitwjx, d ufló utw jq gfwht
hnshzjsyf wjfqjx, vzj qtx int Xfshmt ij rzd rfqf lfsf, inhnjsit:

-F itx gfwhfifx htrt éxyfx, ifwjrtx hts ytit jq hfzifq fq ktsit.

Qtx ujxhfitwjx d rtqnsjwtx jxyfgfs firnwfitx, rnwfsit fvzjqqfx itx knlzwfx
yfs kzjwf ijq zxt, fq ufwjhjw, ij qtx tywtx mtrgwjx, d st fhfgfgfs ij
jsyjsijw f ió xj jshfrnsfgfs qfx wfetsjx d uwjlzsyfx vzj its Vznotyj qjx
ijhíf; d, yjsnésitqtx utw qthtx, qjx ijofwts d xj wjhtlnjwts f xzx fhjñfx,
d qtx ujxhfitwjx f xzx wfshmtx. Atqanjwts f xzx gjxynfx, d f xjw gjxynfx,
its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, d jxyj kns yzat qf fajsyzwf ijq jshfsyfit gfwht.





Hfuíyzqt CCC. Ij qt vzj qj fanst f its Vznotyj hts zsf gjqqf hfefitwf


Fxfe rjqfshóqnhtx d ij rfq yfqfsyj qqjlfwts f xzx fsnrfqjx hfgfqqjwt d
jxhzijwt, jxujhnfqrjsyj Xfshmt, f vznjs qqjlfgf fq fqrf qqjlfw fq hfzifq
ijq insjwt, ufwjhnésitqj vzj ytit qt vzj iéq xj vznyfgf jwf vznyáwxjqt f
éq ij qfx snñfx ij xzx totx. Knsfqrjsyj, xns mfgqfwxj ufqfgwf, xj uzxnjwts
f hfgfqqt d xj fufwyfwts ijq kfrtxt wít, its Vznotyj xjuzqyfit js qtx
ujsxfrnjsytx ij xzx frtwjx, d Xfshmt js qtx ij xz fhwjhjsyfrnjsyt, vzj utw
jsytshjx qj ufwjhíf vzj jxyfgf gnjs qjotx ij yjsjwqj; utwvzj, rflzjw jwf
ytsyt, gnjs xj qj fqhfsefgf vzj qfx fhhntsjx ij xz frt, ytifx t qfx ráx,
jwfs inxufwfyjx, d gzxhfgf thfxnós ij vzj, xns jsywfw js hzjsyfx sn js
ijxujinrnjsytx hts xz xjñtw, zs iíf xj ijxlfwwfxj d xj kzjxj f xz hfxf.
Ujwt qf ktwyzsf twijsó qfx htxfx rzd fq wjaéx ij qt vzj éq yjríf.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj tywt iíf, fq utsjw ijq xtq d fq xfqnw ij zsf xjqaf,
yjsinó its Vznotyj qf anxyf utw zs ajwij uwfit, d js qt úqynrt iéq ant
ljsyj, d, qqjlásitxj hjwhf, htsthnó vzj jwfs hfefitwjx ij fqyfsjwíf.
Qqjlóxj ráx, d jsywj jqqtx ant zsf lfqqfwif xjñtwf xtgwj zs ufqfkwés t
mfhfsjf gqfsvzíxnrf, fitwsfif ij lzfwsnhntsjx ajwijx d hts zs xnqqós ij
uqfyf. Ajsíf qf xjñtwf fxnrnxrt ajxynif ij ajwij, yfs gnefwwf d wnhfrjsyj
vzj qf rnxrf gnefwwíf ajsíf ywfsxktwrfif js jqqf. Js qf rfst nevznjwif
ywfíf zs fetw, xjñfq vzj int f jsyjsijw f its Vznotyj xjw fvzéqqf fqlzsf
lwfs xjñtwf, vzj ijgíf xjwqt ij ytitx fvzjqqtx hfefitwjx, htrt jwf qf
ajwifi; d fxí, inot f Xfshmt:

-Htwwj, mnot Xfshmt, d in f fvzjqqf xjñtwf ijq ufqfkwés d ijq fetw vzj dt,
jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx, gjxf qfx rfstx f xz lwfs kjwrtxzwf, d vzj xn xz
lwfsijef rj if qnhjshnf, xj qfx nwé f gjxfw, d f xjwanwqf js hzfsyt rnx
kzjwefx uzinjwjs d xz fqyjef rj rfsifwj. D rnwf, Xfshmt, hórt mfgqfx, d yjs
hzjsyf ij st jshfofw fqlús wjkwás ij qtx yzdtx js yz jrgfofif.

-¡Mfqqfit tx qj mfgénx jq jshfofitw! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. ¡F rí hts jxt!
¡Xí, vzj st jx éxyf qf aje uwnrjwf vzj mj qqjafit jrgfofifx f fqyfx d
hwjhnifx xjñtwfx js jxyf anif!

-Xn st kzj qf vzj qqjafxyj f qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, dt
st xé vzj mfdfx qqjafit tywf, f qt rjstx js rn utijw.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt fq gzjs uflfitw st qj izjqjs
uwjsifx, d js hfxf qqjsf uwjxyt xj lznxf qf hjsf; vznjwt ijhnw vzj f rí st
mfd vzj ijhnwrj sn fiajwynwrj ij sfif, vzj ufwf ytit yjslt d ij ytit xj rj
fqhfsef zs utht.

-Dt qt hwjt, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-; aj js gzjsf mtwf, d Intx yj lzíj.

Ufwynó Xfshmt ij hfwwjwf, xfhfsit ij xz ufxt fq wzhnt, d qqjló itsij qf
gjqqf hfefitwf jxyfgf, d, fujásitxj, uzjxyt fsyj jqqf ij mnstotx, qj inot:

-Mjwrtxf xjñtwf, fvzjq hfgfqqjwt vzj fqqí xj ufwjhj, qqfrfit jq Hfgfqqjwt
ij qtx Qjtsjx, jx rn frt, d dt xtd zs jxhzijwt xzdt, f vznjs qqfrfs js xz
hfxf Xfshmt Ufsef. Jxyj yfq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx, vzj st mf rzhmt vzj xj
qqfrfgf jq ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, jsaíf utw rí f ijhnw f azjxywf lwfsijef xjf
xjwanif ij ifwqj qnhjshnf ufwf vzj, hts xz uwtuóxnyt d gjsjuqáhnyt d
htsxjsynrnjsyt, éq ajslf f utsjw js tgwf xz ijxjt, vzj st jx tywt, xjlús éq
inhj d dt unjsxt, vzj ij xjwanw f azjxywf jshzrgwfif fqyfsjwíf d kjwrtxzwf;
vzj js iáwxjqf azjxywf xjñtwíf mfwá htxf vzj wjizsij js xz uwt, d éq
wjhngnwá xjñfqfiíxnrf rjwhji d htsyjsyt.

-Utw hnjwyt, gzjs jxhzijwt -wjxutsinó qf xjñtwf-, atx mfgénx ifit qf
jrgfofif azjxywf hts ytifx fvzjqqfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx vzj qfx yfqjx jrgfofifx
unijs. Qjafsyftx ijq xzjqt, vzj jxhzijwt ij yfs lwfs hfgfqqjwt htrt jx jq
ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, ij vznjs df yjsjrtx fhá rzhmf stynhnf, st jx ozxyt vzj
jxyé ij mnstotx; qjafsyftx, frnlt, d ijhni f azjxywt xjñtw vzj ajslf rzhmt
js mtwf gzjsf f xjwanwxj ij rí d ijq izvzj rn rfwnit, js zsf hfxf ij uqfhjw
vzj fvzí yjsjrtx.

Qjafsyóxj Xfshmt firnwfit, fxí ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf gzjsf xjñtwf htrt ij
xz rzhmf hwnfsef d htwyjxíf, d ráx ij qt vzj qj mfgíf inhmt vzj yjsíf
stynhnf ij xz xjñtw jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, d vzj xn st qj
mfgíf qqfrfit jq ij qtx Qjtsjx, ijgíf ij xjw utw mfgéwxjqj uzjxyt yfs
szjafrjsyj. Uwjlzsyóqj qf izvzjxf, hzdt yíyzqt fús st xj xfgj:

-Ijhnirj, mjwrfst jxhzijwt: jxyj azjxywt xjñtw, ¿st jx zst ij vznjs fsif
nruwjxf zsf mnxytwnf vzj xj qqfrf ijq nsljsntxt mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, vzj ynjsj utw xjñtwf ij xz fqrf f zsf yfq Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt?

-Jq rjxrt jx, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d fvzjq jxhzijwt xzdt vzj fsif, t
ijgj ij fsifw, js qf yfq mnxytwnf, f vznjs qqfrfs Xfshmt Ufsef, xtd dt, xn
st jx vzj rj ywthfwts js qf hzsf; vznjwt ijhnw, vzj rj ywthfwts js qf
jxyfruf.

-Ij ytit jxt rj mzjqlt dt rzhmt -inot qf izvzjxf-. Ni, mjwrfst Ufsef, d
ijhni f azjxywt xjñtw vzj éq xjf jq gnjs qqjlfit d jq gnjs ajsnit f rnx
jxyfitx, d vzj snslzsf htxf rj uzinjwf ajsnw vzj ráx htsyjsyt rj injwf.

Xfshmt, hts jxyf yfs flwfifgqj wjxuzjxyf, hts lwfsiíxnrt lzxyt atqanó f xz
frt, f vznjs htsyó ytit qt vzj qf lwfs xjñtwf qj mfgíf inhmt, qjafsyfsit
hts xzx wúxynhtx yéwrnstx f qtx hnjqtx xz rzhmf kjwrtxzwf, xz lwfs itsfnwj
d htwyjxíf. Its Vznotyj xj lfqqfwijó js qf xnqqf, uúxtxj gnjs js qtx
jxywngtx, fhtrtióxj qf anxjwf, fwwjrjynó f Wthnsfsyj, d hts ljsynq ijszjit
kzj f gjxfw qfx rfstx f qf izvzjxf; qf hzfq, mfhnjsit qqfrfw fq izvzj, xz
rfwnit, qj htsyó, js yfsyt vzj its Vznotyj qqjlfgf, ytif qf jrgfofif xzdf;
d qtx itx, utw mfgjw qjíit qf uwnrjwf ufwyj ijxyf mnxytwnf d mfgjw
jsyjsinit utw jqqf jq inxufwfyfit mzrtw ij its Vznotyj, hts lwfsiíxnrt
lzxyt d hts ijxjt ij htsthjwqj qj fyjsiífs, hts uwtxzuzjxyt ij xjlznwqj jq
mzrtw d htshjijw hts éq js hzfsyt qjx inojxj, ywfyásitqj htrt f hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj qtx iífx vzj hts jqqtx xj ijyzanjxj, hts ytifx qfx hjwjrtsnfx
fhtxyzrgwfifx js qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj jqqtx mfgífs qjíit, d fzs
qjx jwfs rzd fknhntsfitx.

Js jxyt, qqjló its Vznotyj, fqefif qf anxjwf; d, ifsit rzjxywfx ij fujfwxj,
fhzinó Xfshmt f yjsjwqj jq jxywngt; ujwt kzj yfs ijxlwfhnfit vzj, fq
fujfwxj ijq wzhnt, xj qj fxnó zs unj js zsf xtlf ijq fqgfwif, ij yfq rtit
vzj st kzj utxngqj ijxjswjifwqj, fsyjx vzjió htqlfit iéq, hts qf gthf d qtx
ujhmtx js jq xzjqt. Its Vznotyj, vzj st yjsíf js htxyzrgwj fujfwxj xns vzj
qj yzanjxjs jq jxywngt, ujsxfsit vzj df Xfshmt mfgíf qqjlfit f yjséwxjqj,
ijxhfwló ij ltquj jq hzjwut, d qqjaóxj ywfx xí qf xnqqf ij Wthnsfsyj, vzj
ijgíf ij jxyfw rfq hnshmfit, d qf xnqqf d éq ansnjwts fq xzjqt, st xns
ajwlüjsef xzdf d ij rzhmfx rfqinhntsjx vzj jsywj injsyjx jhmó fq ijxinhmfit
ij Xfshmt, vzj fús ytifaíf yjsíf jq unj js qf htwrf.

Jq izvzj rfsió f xzx hfefitwjx vzj fhzinjxjs fq hfgfqqjwt d fq jxhzijwt,
qtx hzfqjx qjafsyfwts f its Vznotyj rfqywjhmt ij qf hfíif, d, wjsvzjfsit d
htrt uzit, kzj f mnshfw qfx wtinqqfx fsyj qtx itx xjñtwjx; ujwt jq izvzj st
qt htsxnsynó js snslzsf rfsjwf, fsyjx, fujásitxj ij xz hfgfqqt, kzj f
fgwfefw f its Vznotyj, inhnésitqj:

-F rí rj ujxf, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf, vzj qf uwnrjwf vzj
azjxf rjwhji mf mjhmt js rn ynjwwf mfdf xnit yfs rfqf htrt xj mf anxyt;
ujwt ijxhznitx ij jxhzijwtx xzjqjs xjw hfzxf ij tywtx ujtwjx xzhjxtx.

-Jq vzj dt mj yjsnit js ajwtx, afqjwtxt uwíshnuj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-,
jx nrutxngqj xjw rfqt, fzsvzj rn hfíif st ufwfwf mfxyf jq uwtkzsit ij qtx
fgnxrtx, uzjx ij fqqí rj qjafsyfwf d rj xfhfwf qf lqtwnf ij mfgjwtx anxyt.
Rn jxhzijwt, vzj Intx rfqinlf, rjotw ijxfyf qf qjslzf ufwf ijhnw rfqnhnfx
vzj fyf d hnshmf zsf xnqqf ufwf vzj jxyé knwrj; ujwt, htrtvznjwf vzj dt rj
mfqqj, hfíit t qjafsyfit, f unj t f hfgfqqt, xnjruwj jxyfwé fq xjwanhnt
azjxywt d fq ij rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, inlsf htsxtwyj azjxywf, d inlsf
xjñtwf ij qf mjwrtxzwf d zsnajwxfq uwnshjxf ij qf htwyjxíf.

-¡Ufxnyt, rn xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf! -inot jq izvzj-, vzj fitsij
jxyá rn xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt st jx wfeós vzj xj fqfgjs tywfx
kjwrtxzwfx.

Df jxyfgf f jxyf xfeós qngwj Xfshmt Ufsef ijq qfet, d, mfqqásitxj fqqí
hjwhf, fsyjx vzj xz frt wjxutsinjxj, inot:

-St xj uzjij sjlfw, xnst fknwrfw, vzj jx rzd mjwrtxf rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, ujwt itsij rjstx xj unjsxf xj qjafsyf qf qnjgwj; vzj dt mj tíit
ijhnw vzj jxyt vzj qqfrfs sfyzwfqjef jx htrt zs fqhfqqjw vzj mfhj afxtx ij
gfwwt, d jq vzj mfhj zs afxt mjwrtxt yfrgnés uzjij mfhjw itx, d ywjx d
hnjsyt; iíltqt utwvzj rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf f kjj vzj st af js eflf f rn frf
qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

Atqanóxj its Vznotyj f qf izvzjxf d inot:

-Azjxywf lwfsijef nrflnsj vzj st yzat hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj js jq rzsit
jxhzijwt ráx mfgqfitw sn ráx lwfhntxt ijq vzj dt yjslt, d éq rj xfhfwá
ajwifijwt xn fqlzstx iífx vznxnjwj azjxywf lwfs hjqxnyzi xjwanwxj ij rí.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf:

-Ij vzj Xfshmt jq gzjst xjf lwfhntxt qt jxynrt dt js rzhmt, utwvzj jx xjñfq
vzj jx inxhwjyt; vzj qfx lwfhnfx d qtx itsfnwjx, xjñtw its Vznotyj, htrt
azjxf rjwhji gnjs xfgj, st fxnjsyfs xtgwj nsljsntx ytwujx; d, uzjx jq gzjs
Xfshmt jx lwfhntxt d itsfnwtxt, ijxij fvzí qj htsknwrt utw inxhwjyt.

-D mfgqfitw -fñfinó its Vznotyj.

-Yfsyt vzj rjotw -inot jq izvzj-, utwvzj rzhmfx lwfhnfx st xj uzjijs ijhnw
hts uthfx ufqfgwfx. D, utwvzj st xj stx afdf jq ynjrut js jqqfx, ajslf jq
lwfs Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Ywnxyj Knlzwf...

-Ij qtx Qjtsjx mf ij ijhnw azjxywf fqyjef -inot Xfshmt-, vzj df st mfd
Ywnxyj Knlzwf, sn knlzwt.

-Xjf jq ij qtx Qjtsjx -uwtxnlznó jq izvzj-. Inlt vzj ajslf jq xjñtw
Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx f zs hfxynqqt rít vzj jxyá fvzí hjwhf, itsij xj qj
mfwá jq fhtlnrnjsyt vzj f yfs fqyf ujwxtsf xj ijgj ozxyfrjsyj, d jq vzj dt
d qf izvzjxf xtqjrtx mfhjw f ytitx qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx vzj f éq qqjlfs.

Df js jxyt, Xfshmt mfgíf fijwjefit d hnshmfit gnjs qf xnqqf f Wthnsfsyj; d,
xzgnjsit js éq its Vznotyj, d jq izvzj js zs mjwrtxt hfgfqqt, uzxnjwts f qf
izvzjxf js rjint d jshfrnsfwts fq hfxynqqt. Rfsió qf izvzjxf f Xfshmt vzj
kzjxj ozsyt f jqqf, utwvzj lzxyfgf nsknsnyt ij tíw xzx inxhwjhntsjx. St xj
mnet ij wtlfw Xfshmt, d jsywjyjonóxj jsywj qtx ywjx, d mnet hzfwyt js qf
htsajwxfhnós, hts lwfs lzxyt ij qf izvzjxf d ijq izvzj, vzj yzanjwts f lwfs
ajsyzwf fhtljw js xz hfxynqqt yfq hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj d yfq jxhzijwt fsifit.





Hfuíyzqt CCCN. Vzj ywfyf ij rzhmfx d lwfsijx htxfx


Xzrf jwf qf fqjlwíf vzj qqjafgf htsxnlt Xfshmt, anésitxj, f xz ufwjhjw, js
uwnafsef hts qf izvzjxf, utwvzj xj qj knlzwfgf vzj mfgíf ij mfqqfw js xz
hfxynqqt qt vzj js qf hfxf ij its Injlt d js qf ij Gfxnqnt, xnjruwj
fknhntsfit f qf gzjsf anif; d fxí, ytrfgf qf thfxnós utw qf rjqjsf js jxyt
ijq wjlfqfwxj hfif d hzfsit vzj xj qj tkwjhíf.

Hzjsyf, uzjx, qf mnxytwnf, vzj fsyjx vzj f qf hfxf ij uqfhjw t hfxynqqt
qqjlfxjs, xj fijqfsyó jq izvzj d int twijs f ytitx xzx hwnfitx ijq rtit vzj
mfgífs ij ywfyfw f its Vznotyj; jq hzfq, htrt qqjló hts qf izvzjxf f qfx
uzjwyfx ijq hfxynqqt, fq nsxyfsyj xfqnjwts iéq itx qfhfdtx t ufqfkwjsjwtx,
ajxynitx mfxyf js unjx ij zsfx wtufx vzj qqfrfs ij qjafsyfw, ij knsíxnrt
wfxt hfwrjxí, d, htlnjsit f its Vznotyj js gwfetx, xns xjw tíit sn anxyt,
qj inojwts:

-Afdf qf azjxywf lwfsijef f fujfw f rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf.

Its Vznotyj qt mnet, d mzgt lwfsijx htrjinrnjsytx jsywj qtx itx xtgwj jq
hfxt; ujwt, js jkjhyt, ajshnó qf utwkíf ij qf izvzjxf, d st vznxt ijhjsijw
t gfofw ijq ufqfkwés xnst js qtx gwfetx ijq izvzj, inhnjsit vzj st xj
mfqqfgf inlsf ij ifw f yfs lwfs hfgfqqjwt yfs nsúynq hfwlf. Js kns, xfqnó
jq izvzj f fujfwqf; d fq jsywfw js zs lwfs ufynt, qqjlfwts itx mjwrtxfx
itshjqqfx d jhmfwts xtgwj qtx mtrgwtx f its Vznotyj zs lwfs rfsyt ij
knsíxnrf jxhfwqfyf, d js zs nsxyfsyj xj htwtsfwts ytitx qtx htwwjitwjx ijq
ufynt ij hwnfitx d hwnfifx ij fvzjqqtx xjñtwjx, inhnjsit f lwfsijx athjx:

-¡Gnjs xjf ajsnit qf kqtw d qf sfyf ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx!

D ytitx, t qtx ráx, ijwwfrfgfs utrtx ij flzfx tqtwtxfx xtgwj its Vznotyj d
xtgwj qtx izvzjx, ij ytit qt hzfq xj firnwfgf its Vznotyj; d fvzéq kzj jq
uwnrjw iíf vzj ij ytit js ytit htsthnó d hwjdó xjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj
ajwifijwt, d st kfsyáxynht, anésitxj ywfyfw ijq rjxrt rtit vzj éq mfgíf
qjíit xj ywfyfgfs qtx yfqjx hfgfqqjwtx js qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx.

Xfshmt, ijxfrufwfsit fq wzhnt, xj htxnó hts qf izvzjxf d xj jsywó js jq
hfxynqqt; d, wjrtwinésitqj qf htshnjshnf ij vzj ijofgf fq ozrjsyt xtqt, xj
qqjló f zsf wjajwjsif izjñf, vzj hts tywfx f wjhjgnw f qf izvzjxf mfgíf
xfqnit, d hts ate gfof qj inot:

-Xjñtwf Ltseáqje, t htrt jx xz lwfhnf ij azjxf rjwhji...

-Itñf Wtiwílzje ij Lwnofqgf rj qqfrt -wjxutsinó qf izjñf-. ¿Vzé jx qt vzj
rfsiánx, mjwrfst?

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Vzjwwíf vzj azjxf rjwhji rj qf mnhnjxj ij xfqnw f qf uzjwyf ijq hfxynqqt,
itsij mfqqfwá zs fxst wzhnt rít; azjxf rjwhji xjf xjwanif ij rfsifwqj
utsjw, t utsjwqj, js qf hfgfqqjwnef, utwvzj jq utgwjhnyt jx zs utht
rjiwtxt, d st xj mfqqfwá f jxyfw xtqt js snslzsf ij qfx rfsjwfx.

-Xn yfs inxhwjyt jx jq frt htrt jq rtet -wjxutsinó qf izjñf-, ¡rjiwfifx
jxyfrtx! Fsifi, mjwrfst, rzhmt ij jsmtwfrfqf ufwf atx d ufwf vznjs fhá tx
ywzot, d yjsji hzjsyf hts azjxywt ozrjsyt, vzj qfx izjñfx ijxyf hfxf st
jxyfrtx fhtxyzrgwfifx f xjrjofsyjx mfhnjsifx.

-Uzjx js ajwifi -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj mj tíit dt ijhnw f rn xjñtw, vzj jx
efmtwí ij qfx mnxytwnfx, htsyfsit fvzjqqf ij Qfsefwtyj,

   hzfsit ij Gwjyfñf anst,
   vzj ifrfx hzwfgfs iéq,
   d izjñfx ijq xz wthnst;

d vzj js jq ufwynhzqfw ij rn fxst, vzj st qj ywthfwf dt hts jq wthís ijq
xjñtw Qfsefwtyj.

-Mjwrfst, xn xtnx ozlqfw -wjuqnhó qf izjñf-, lzfwifi azjxywfx lwfhnfx ufwf
itsij qt ufwjehfs d xj tx uflzjs, vzj ij rn st utiwénx qqjafw xnst zsf
mnlf.

-¡Fzs gnjs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj xjwá gnjs rfizwf, uzjx st ujwijwá azjxf
rjwhji qf vzístqf ij xzx fñtx utw uzsyt rjstx!

-Mnot ij uzyf -inot qf izjñf, ytif df jshjsinif js hóqjwf-, xn xtd anjof t
st, f Intx ifwé qf hzjsyf, vzj st f atx, gjqqfht, mfwyt ij fotx.

D jxyt inot js ate yfs fqyf, vzj qt tdó qf izvzjxf; d, atqanjsit d anjsit f
qf izjñf yfs fqgtwtyfif d yfs jshfwsnefitx qtx totx, qj uwjlzsyó hts vznés
qfx mfgíf.

-Fvzí qfx mj -wjxutsinó qf izjñf- hts jxyj gzjs mtrgwj, vzj rj mf ujinit
jshfwjhnifrjsyj vzj afdf f utsjw js qf hfgfqqjwnef f zs fxst xzdt vzj jxyá
f qf uzjwyf ijq hfxynqqt, ywfdésitrj utw jojruqt vzj fxí qt mnhnjwts st xé
iósij, vzj zsfx ifrfx hzwfwts f zs yfq Qfsefwtyj, d zsfx izjñfx f xz
wthnst, d, xtgwj ytit, utw gzjs yéwrnst rj mf qqfrfit anjof.

-Jxt yzanjwf dt utw fkwjsyf -wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf-, ráx vzj hzfsyfx
uzinjwfs ijhnwrj.

D, mfgqfsit hts Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Fiajwyni, Xfshmt frnlt, vzj itñf Wtiwílzje jx rzd rtef, d vzj fvzjqqfx
ythfx ráx qfx ywfj utw fzytwnifi d utw qf zxfsef vzj utw qtx fñtx.

-Rfqtx xjfs qtx vzj rj vzjifs utw ananw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn qt inoj utw
yfsyt; xóqt qt inoj utwvzj jx yfs lwfsij jq hfwnñt vzj yjslt f rn ozrjsyt,
vzj rj ufwjhnó vzj st utiíf jshtrjsifwqj f ujwxtsf ráx hfwnyfynaf vzj f qf
xjñtwf itñf Wtiwílzje.

Its Vznotyj, vzj ytit qt tíf, qj inot:

-¿Uqáynhfx xts éxyfx, Xfshmt, ufwf jxyj qzlfw?

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, hfif zst mf ij mfgqfw ij xz rjsjxyjw itsijvznjwf
vzj jxyzanjwj; fvzí xj rj fhtwió ijq wzhnt, d fvzí mfgqé iéq; d xn js qf
hfgfqqjwnef xj rj fhtwifwf, fqqí mfgqfwf.

F qt vzj inot jq izvzj:

-Xfshmt jxyá rzd js qt hnjwyt, d st mfd vzj hzqufwqj js sfif; fq wzhnt xj
qj ifwá wjhfit f ujinw ij gthf, d ijxhznij Xfshmt, vzj xj qj ywfyfwá htrt f
xz rjxrf ujwxtsf.

Hts jxytx wfetsfrnjsytx, lzxytxtx f ytitx xnst f its Vznotyj, qqjlfwts f qt
fqyt d jsywfwts f its Vznotyj js zsf xfqf fitwsfif ij yjqfx wnvzíxnrfx ij
twt d ij gwthfit; xjnx itshjqqfx qj ijxfwrfwts d xnwanjwts ij ufojx, ytifx
nsizxywnfifx d fiajwynifx ijq izvzj d ij qf izvzjxf ij qt vzj mfgífs ij
mfhjw, d ij hórt mfgífs ij ywfyfw f its Vznotyj, ufwf vzj nrflnsfxj d anjxj
vzj qj ywfyfgfs htrt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj. Vzjió its Vznotyj, ijxuzéx ij
ijxfwrfit, js xzx jxywjhmtx lwjlzjxhtx d js xz ozgós ij hfrzef, xjht, fqyt,
yjsinit, hts qfx vznofifx, vzj utw ij ijsywt xj gjxfgf qf zsf hts qf tywf;
knlzwf vzj, f st yjsjw hzjsyf qfx itshjqqfx vzj qj xjwaífs hts inxnrzqfw qf
wnxf -vzj kzj zsf ij qfx uwjhnxfx ówijsjx vzj xzx xjñtwjx qjx mfgífs ifit-,
wjajsyfwfs wnjsit.

Uninéwtsqj vzj xj ijofxj ijxszifw ufwf zsf hfrnxf, ujwt szshf qt htsxnsynó,
inhnjsit vzj qf mtsjxynifi ufwjhíf yfs gnjs js qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx htrt
qf afqjsyíf. Hts ytit, inot vzj injxjs qf hfrnxf f Xfshmt, d, jshjwwásitxj
hts éq js zsf hzfiwf itsij jxyfgf zs wnht qjhmt, xj ijxszió d anxynó qf
hfrnxf; d, anésitxj xtqt hts Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Inrj, ywzmás rtijwst d rfofijwt fsynlzt: ¿ufwéhjyj gnjs ijxmtswfw d
fkwjsyfw f zsf izjñf yfs ajsjwfsif d yfs inlsf ij wjxujyt htrt fvzéqqf?
¿Ynjrutx jwfs fvzéqqtx ufwf fhtwifwyj ijq wzhnt, t xjñtwjx xts éxytx ufwf
ijofw rfq ufxfw f qfx gjxynfx, ywfyfsit yfs jqjlfsyjrjsyj f xzx izjñtx? Utw
vznjs Intx jx, Xfshmt, vzj yj wjutwyjx, d vzj st ijxhzgwfx qf mnqfef ij
rfsjwf vzj hfnlfs js qf hzjsyf ij vzj jwjx ij anqqfsf d lwtxjwf yjqf
yjonit. Rnwf, ujhfitw ij yn, vzj js yfsyt ráx jx yjsnit jq xjñtw hzfsyt
ynjsj ráx mtswfitx d gnjs sfhnitx hwnfitx, d vzj zsf ij qfx ajsyfofx
rfdtwjx vzj qqjafs qtx uwíshnujx f qtx ijráx mtrgwjx jx vzj xj xnwajs ij
hwnfitx yfs gzjstx htrt jqqtx. ¿St fianjwyjx, fslzxynfit ij yn, d
rfqfajsyzwfit ij rí, vzj xn ajjs vzj yú jwjx zs lwtxjwt anqqfst, t zs
rjsyjhfyt lwfhntxt, ujsxfwás vzj dt xtd fqlús jhmfhzjwatx, t fqlús
hfgfqqjwt ij rtmfywf? St, st, Xfshmt frnlt, mzdj, mzdj ijxytx
nshtsansnjsyjx, vzj vznjs ywtunjef js mfgqfitw d js lwfhntxt, fq uwnrjw
uzsyfuné hfj d if js ywzmás ijxlwfhnfit. Jskwjsf qf qjslzf, htsxnijwf d
wzrnf qfx ufqfgwfx fsyjx vzj yj xfqlfs ij qf gthf, d fianjwyj vzj mjrtx
qqjlfit f ufwyj itsij, hts jq kfatw ij Intx d afqtw ij rn gwfet, mjrtx ij
xfqnw rjotwfitx js yjwhnt d vznsyt js kfrf d js mfhnjsif.

Xfshmt qj uwtrjynó hts rzhmfx ajwfx ij htxjwxj qf gthf, t rtwijwxj qf
qjslzf, fsyjx ij mfgqfw ufqfgwf vzj st kzjxj rzd f uwtuóxnyt d gnjs
htsxnijwfif, htrt éq xj qt rfsifgf, d vzj ijxhznifxj fhjwhf ij qt yfq, vzj
szshf utw éq xj ijxhzgwnwíf vznés jqqtx jwfs.

Anxynóxj its Vznotyj, uúxtxj xz yfmfqí hts xz jxufif, jhmóxj jq rfsyós ij
jxhfwqfyf f hzjxyfx, uúxtxj zsf rtsyjwf ij wfxt ajwij vzj qfx itshjqqfx qj
injwts, d hts jxyj fitwst xfqnó f qf lwfs xfqf, fitsij mfqqó f qfx
itshjqqfx uzjxyfx js fqf, yfsyfx f zsf ufwyj htrt f tywf, d ytifx hts
fijwjet ij ifwqj flzfrfstx, qf hzfq qj injwts hts rzhmfx wjajwjshnfx d
hjwjrtsnfx.

Qzjlt qqjlfwts ithj ufojx hts jq rfjxywjxfqf, ufwf qqjafwqj f htrjw, vzj df
qtx xjñtwjx qj flzfwifgfs. Htlnéwtsqj js rjint, d, qqjst ij utruf d
rfojxyfi, qj qqjafwts f tywf xfqf, itsij jxyfgf uzjxyf zsf wnhf rjxf hts
xtqtx hzfywt xjwanhntx. Qf izvzjxf d jq izvzj xfqnjwts f qf uzjwyf ij qf
xfqf f wjhjgnwqj, d hts jqqtx zs lwfaj jhqjxnáxynht, ijxytx vzj ltgnjwsfs
qfx hfxfx ij qtx uwíshnujx; ijxytx vzj, htrt st sfhjs uwíshnujx, st
fhnjwyfs f jsxjñfw hórt qt mfs ij xjw qtx vzj qt xts; ijxytx vzj vznjwjs
vzj qf lwfsijef ij qtx lwfsijx xj rnif hts qf jxywjhmjef ij xzx ásnrtx;
ijxytx vzj, vzjwnjsit rtxywfw f qtx vzj jqqtx ltgnjwsfs f xjw qnrnyfitx,
qjx mfhjs xjw rnxjwfgqjx; ijxytx yfqjx, inlt vzj ijgíf ij xjw jq lwfaj
wjqnlntxt vzj hts qtx izvzjx xfqnó f wjhjgnw f its Vznotyj. Mnhnéwtsxj rnq
htwyjxjx htrjinrnjsytx, d, knsfqrjsyj, htlnjsit f its Vznotyj js rjint, xj
kzjwts f xjsyfw f qf rjxf.

Htsanió jq izvzj f its Vznotyj hts qf hfgjhjwf ij qf rjxf, d fzsvzj éq qt
wjmzxó, qfx nrutwyzsfhntsjx ijq izvzj kzjwts yfsyfx vzj qf mzgt ij ytrfw.
Jq jhqjxnáxynht xj xjsyó kwtsyjwt, d jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf f qtx itx qfitx.

F ytit jxyfgf uwjxjsyj Xfshmt, jrgtgfit d fyósnyt ij ajw qf mtswf vzj f xz
xjñtw fvzjqqtx uwíshnujx qj mfhífs; d, anjsit qfx rzhmfx hjwjrtsnfx d
wzjltx vzj ufxfwts jsywj jq izvzj d its Vznotyj ufwf mfhjwqj xjsyfw f qf
hfgjhjwf ij qf rjxf, inot:

-Xn xzx rjwhjijx rj ifs qnhjshnf, qjx htsyfwé zs hzjsyt vzj ufxó js rn
uzjgqt fhjwhf ijxyt ij qtx fxnjsytx.

Fujsfx mzgt inhmt jxyt Xfshmt, hzfsit its Vznotyj yjrgqó, hwjdjsit xns izif
fqlzsf vzj mfgíf ij ijhnw fqlzsf sjhjifi. Rnwóqj Xfshmt d jsyjsinóqj, d
inot:

-St yjrf azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, vzj dt rj ijxrfsij, sn vzj inlf htxf vzj
st ajslf rzd f ujqt, vzj st xj rj mfs tqanifit qtx htsxjotx vzj utht mf
azjxf rjwhji rj int xtgwj jq mfgqfw rzhmt t utht, t gnjs t rfq.

-Dt st rj fhzjwit ij sfif, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; in qt vzj
vznxnjwjx, htrt qt inlfx uwjxyt.

-Uzjx qt vzj vznjwt ijhnw -inot Xfshmt- jx yfs ajwifi, vzj rn xjñtw its
Vznotyj, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj, st rj ijofwá rjsynw.

-Utw rí -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, rnjsyj yú, Xfshmt, hzfsyt vznxnjwjx, vzj dt
st yj nwé f qf rfst, ujwt rnwf qt vzj afx f ijhnw.

-Yfs rnwfit d wjrnwfit qt yjslt, vzj f gzjs xfqat jxyá jq vzj wjunhf, htrt
xj ajwá utw qf tgwf.

-Gnjs xjwá -inot its Vznotyj- vzj azjxywfx lwfsijefx rfsijs jhmfw ij fvzí f
jxyj ytsyt, vzj inwá rnq ufythmfifx.

-Utw anif ijq izvzj -inot qf izvzjxf-, vzj st xj mf ij fufwyfw ij rí Xfshmt
zs uzsyt: vznéwtqj dt rzhmt, utwvzj xé vzj jx rzd inxhwjyt.

-Inxhwjytx iífx -inot Xfshmt- anaf azjxywf xfsynifi utw jq gzjs hwéinyt vzj
ij rí ynjsj, fzsvzj js rí st qt mfdf. D jq hzjsyt vzj vznjwt ijhnw jx éxyj:
«Htsanió zs mnifqlt ij rn uzjgqt, rzd wnht d uwnshnufq, utwvzj ajsíf ij qtx
Áqfrtx ij Rjinsf ijq Hfrut, vzj hfxó hts itñf Rjshíf ij Vznñtsjx, vzj kzj
mnof ij its Fqtsxt ij Rfwfñós, hfgfqqjwt ijq mágnyt ij Xfsynflt, vzj xj
fmtló js qf Mjwwfizwf, utw vznjs mzgt fvzjqqf ujsijshnf fñtx mf js szjxywt
qzlfw, vzj, f qt vzj jsynjsit, rn xjñtw its Vznotyj xj mfqqó js jqqf, ij
itsij xfqnó mjwnit Ytrfxnqqt jq Ywfanjxt, jq mnot ij Gfqgfxywt jq
mjwwjwt...» ¿St jx ajwifi ytit jxyt, xjñtw szjxywt frt? Iílfqt, utw xz
anif, utwvzj jxytx xjñtwjx st rj yjslfs utw fqlús mfgqfitw rjsynwtxt.

-Mfxyf fmtwf -inot jq jhqjxnáxynht-, ráx tx yjslt utw mfgqfitw vzj utw
rjsynwtxt, ujwt ij fvzí fijqfsyj st xé utw qt vzj tx yjsiwé.

-Yú ifx yfsytx yjxynltx, Xfshmt, d yfsyfx xjñfx, vzj st uzjit ijofw ij
ijhnw vzj ijgjx ij ijhnw ajwifi. Ufxf fijqfsyj d fhtwyf jq hzjsyt, utwvzj
qqjafx hfrnst ij st fhfgfw js itx iífx.

-St mf ij fhtwyfw yfq -inot qf izvzjxf-, utw mfhjwrj f rí uqfhjw; fsyjx, qj
mf ij htsyfw ij qf rfsjwf vzj qj xfgj, fzsvzj st qj fhfgj js xjnx iífx; vzj
xn yfsytx kzjxjs, xjwífs ufwf rí qtx rjotwjx vzj mzgnjxj qqjafit js rn
anif.

-«Inlt, uzjx, xjñtwjx rítx -uwtxnlznó Xfshmt-, vzj jxyj yfq mnifqlt, vzj dt
htsteht htrt f rnx rfstx, utwvzj st mfd ij rn hfxf f qf xzdf zs ynwt ij
gfqqjxyf, htsanió zs qfgwfitw utgwj, ujwt mtswfit.»

-Fijqfsyj, mjwrfst -inot f jxyf xfeós jq wjqnlntxt-, vzj hfrnst qqjaánx ij
st ufwfw hts azjxywt hzjsyt mfxyf jq tywt rzsit.

-F rjstx ij qf rnyfi ufwfwé, xn Intx kzjwj xjwanit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. «D
fxí, inlt vzj, qqjlfsit jq yfq qfgwfitw f hfxf ijq inhmt mnifqlt
htsanifitw, vzj gzjs utxt mfdf xz ásnrf, vzj df jx rzjwyt, d utw ráx xjñfx
inhjs vzj mnet zsf rzjwyj ij zs ásljq, vzj dt st rj mfqqé uwjxjsyj, vzj
mfgíf nit utw fvzjq ynjrut f xjlfw f Yjrgqjvzj...»

-Utw anif azjxywf, mnot, vzj atqaánx uwjxyt ij Yjrgqjvzj, d vzj, xns
jsyjwwfw fq mnifqlt, xn st vzjwénx mfhjw ráx jcjvznfx, fhfgénx azjxywt
hzjsyt.

-«Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj, jxyfsit qtx itx ufwf fxjsyfwxj f
qf rjxf, vzj ufwjhj vzj fmtwf qtx ajt ráx vzj szshf...»

Lwfs lzxyt wjhjgífs qtx izvzjx ijq inxlzxyt vzj rtxywfgf ytrfw jq gzjs
wjqnlntxt ij qf inqfhnós d ufzxfx hts vzj Xfshmt htsyfgf xz hzjsyt, d its
Vznotyj xj jxyfgf htsxzrnjsit js hóqjwf d js wfgnf.

-«Inlt, fxí -inot Xfshmt-, vzj, jxyfsit, htrt mj inhmt, qtx itx ufwf
xjsyfwxj f qf rjxf, jq qfgwfitw utwknfgf hts jq mnifqlt vzj ytrfxj qf
hfgjhjwf ij qf rjxf, d jq mnifqlt utwknfgf yfrgnés vzj jq qfgwfitw qf
ytrfxj, utwvzj js xz hfxf xj mfgíf ij mfhjw qt vzj éq rfsifxj; ujwt jq
qfgwfitw, vzj uwjxzríf ij htwyéx d gnjs hwnfit, ofráx vznxt, mfxyf vzj jq
mnifqlt, rtmíst, utsnésitqj frgfx rfstx xtgwj qtx mtrgwtx, qj mnet xjsyfw
utw kzjwef, inhnésitqj: ''Xjsyftx, rfoflwfsefx, vzj fitsijvznjwf vzj dt rj
xnjsyj xjwá azjxywf hfgjhjwf''.» D éxyj jx jq hzjsyt, d js ajwifi vzj hwjt
vzj st mf xnit fvzí ywfíit kzjwf ij uwtuóxnyt.

Uúxtxj its Vznotyj ij rnq htqtwjx, vzj xtgwj qt rtwjst qj ofxujfgfs d xj qj
ufwjhífs; qtx xjñtwjx inxnrzqfwts qf wnxf, utwvzj its Vznotyj st fhfgfxj ij
htwwjwxj, mfgnjsit jsyjsinit qf rfqnhnf ij Xfshmt; d, utw rzifw ij uqáynhf
d mfhjw vzj Xfshmt st uwtxnlznjxj hts tywtx inxufwfyjx, uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf
f its Vznotyj vzj vzé szjafx yjsíf ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, d vzj xn qj mfgíf
jsanfit fvzjqqtx iífx fqlzstx uwjxjsyjx ij lnlfsyjx t rfqfsiwnsjx, uzjx st
utiíf ijofw ij mfgjw ajshnit rzhmtx. F qt vzj its Vznotyj wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtwf ríf, rnx ijxlwfhnfx, fzsvzj yzanjwts uwnshnunt, szshf yjsiwás kns.
Lnlfsyjx mj ajshnit, d ktqqtsjx d rfqfsiwnsjx qj mj jsanfit, ujwt ¿fiósij
qf mfgífs ij mfqqfw, xn jxyá jshfsyfif d azjqyf js qf ráx kjf qfgwfitwf vzj
nrflnsfw xj uzjij?

-St xé -inot Xfshmt Ufsef-, f rí rj ufwjhj qf ráx mjwrtxf hwnfyzwf ijq
rzsit; f qt rjstx, js qf qnljwjef d js jq gwnshfw gnjs xé dt vzj st ifwá
jqqf qf ajsyfof f zs atqyjfitw; f gzjsf kj, xjñtwf izvzjxf, fxí xfqyf ijxij
jq xzjqt xtgwj zsf gtwwnhf htrt xn kzjwf zs lfyt.

-¿Mfgénxqf anxyt atx jshfsyfif, Xfshmt? -uwjlzsyó jq izvzj.

-D ¡hórt xn qf mj anxyt! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Uzjx, ¿vznés infgqtx xnst dt
kzj jq uwnrjwt vzj hfdó js jq fhmfvzj ijq jshfsytwnt? ¡Yfs jshfsyfif jxyá
htrt rn ufiwj!

Jq jhqjxnáxynht, vzj tdó ijhnw ij lnlfsyjx, ij ktqqtsjx d ij jshfsytx, hfdó
js qf hzjsyf ij vzj fvzéq ijgíf ij xjw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, hzdf
mnxytwnf qjíf jq izvzj ij twinsfwnt, d éq xj qt mfgíf wjuwjmjsinit rzhmfx
ajhjx, inhnésitqj vzj jwf inxufwfyj qjjw yfqjx inxufwfyjx; d, jsyjwásitxj
xjw ajwifi qt vzj xtxujhmfgf, hts rzhmf hóqjwf, mfgqfsit hts jq izvzj, qj
inot:

-Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf, xjñtw rít, ynjsj vzj ifw hzjsyf f Szjxywt Xjñtw ij qt
vzj mfhj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj. Jxyj its Vznotyj, t its Ytsyt, t htrt xj qqfrf,
nrflnst dt vzj st ijgj ij xjw yfs rjsyjhfyt htrt Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf vznjwj
vzj xjf, iásitqj thfxntsjx f qf rfst ufwf vzj qqjaj fijqfsyj xzx xfsijhjx d
afhnjifijx.

D, atqanjsit qf uqáynhf f its Vznotyj, qj inot:

-D f atx, fqrf ij hásyfwt, ¿vznés tx mf jshfofit js jq hjqjgwt vzj xtnx
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj d vzj ajshénx lnlfsyjx d uwjsiénx rfqfsiwnsjx? Fsifi js
mtwf gzjsf, d js yfq xj tx inlf: atqajtx f azjxywf hfxf, d hwnfi azjxywtx
mnotx, xn qtx yjsénx, d hzwfi ij azjxywf mfhnjsif, d ijofi ij fsifw aflfsit
utw jq rzsit, ufufsit anjsyt d ifsit vzj wjíw f hzfsytx tx htsthjs d st
htsthjs. ¿Js iósij, stwf yfq, mfgénx atx mfqqfit vzj mzgt sn mfd fmtwf
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx? ¿Iósij mfd lnlfsyjx js Jxufñf, t rfqfsiwnsjx js qf
Rfshmf, sn Izqhnsjfx jshfsyfifx, sn ytif qf hfyjwaf ij qfx xnruqnhnifijx
vzj ij atx xj hzjsyfs?

Fyjsyt jxyzat its Vznotyj f qfx wfetsjx ij fvzjq ajsjwfgqj afwós, d, anjsit
vzj df hfqqfgf, xns lzfwifw wjxujyt f qtx izvzjx, hts xjrgqfsyj fnwfit d
fqgtwtyfit wtxywt, xj uzxt js unj d inot...

Ujwt jxyf wjxuzjxyf hfuíyzqt utw xí rjwjhj.





Hfuíyzqt CCCNN. Ij qf wjxuzjxyf vzj int its Vznotyj f xz wjuwjmjsxtw, hts
tywtx lwfajx d lwfhntxtx xzhjxtx


Qjafsyfit, uzjx, js unj its Vznotyj, yjrgqfsit ij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef htrt
fetlfit, hts uwjxzwtxf d yzwgfif qjslzf, inot:

-Jq qzlfw itsij jxytd, d qf uwjxjshnf fsyj vznjs rj mfqqt d jq wjxujyt vzj
xnjruwj yzaj d yjslt fq jxyfit vzj azjxf rjwhji uwtkjxf ynjsjs d fyfs qfx
rfstx ij rn ozxyt jstot; d, fxí utw qt vzj mj inhmt htrt utw xfgjw vzj
xfgjs ytitx vzj qfx fwrfx ij qtx ytlfitx xts qfx rjxrfx vzj qfx ij qf
rzojw, vzj xts qf qjslzf, jsywfwé hts qf ríf js nlzfq gfyfqqf hts azjxf
rjwhji, ij vznjs xj ijgíf jxujwfw fsyjx gzjstx htsxjotx vzj nskfrjx
anyzujwntx. Qfx wjuwjmjsxntsjx xfsyfx d gnjs nsyjshntsfifx tywfx
hnwhzsxyfshnfx wjvznjwjs d tywtx uzsytx unijs: f qt rjstx, jq mfgjwrj
wjuwjmjsinit js uúgqnht d yfs áxujwfrjsyj mf ufxfit ytitx qtx qírnyjx ij qf
gzjsf wjuwjmjsxnós, uzjx qfx uwnrjwfx rjotw fxnjsyfs xtgwj qf gqfsizwf vzj
xtgwj qf fxujwjef, d st jx gnjs vzj, xns yjsjw htsthnrnjsyt ijq ujhfit vzj
xj wjuwjmjsij, qqfrfw fq ujhfitw, xns ráx sn ráx, rjsyjhfyt d ytsyt. Xn st,
iílfrj azjxf rjwhji: ¿utw hzáq ij qfx rjsyjhfyjwífx vzj js rí mf anxyt rj
htsijsf d anyzujwf, d rj rfsif vzj rj afdf f rn hfxf f yjsjw hzjsyf js jq
ltgnjwst ijqqf d ij rn rzojw d ij rnx mnotx, xns xfgjw xn qf yjslt t qtx
yjslt? ¿St mfd ráx xnst f ywthmj rthmj jsywfwxj utw qfx hfxfx fojsfx f
ltgjwsfw xzx izjñtx, d, mfgnésitxj hwnfit fqlzstx js qf jxywjhmjef ij fqlús
uzunqfoj, xns mfgjw anxyt ráx rzsit vzj jq vzj uzjij htsyjsjwxj js ajnsyj t
ywjnsyf qjlzfx ij inxywnyt, rjyjwxj ij wtsiós f ifw qjdjx f qf hfgfqqjwíf d
f ozelfw ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx? ¿Utw ajsyzwf jx fxzruyt afst t jx
ynjrut rfq lfxyfit jq vzj xj lfxyf js aflfw utw jq rzsit, st gzxhfsit qtx
wjlfqtx iéq, xnst qfx fxujwjefx utw itsij qtx gzjstx xzgjs fq fxnjsyt ij qf
nsrtwyfqnifi? Xn rj yzanjwfs utw ytsyt qtx hfgfqqjwtx, qtx rflsíknhtx, qtx
ljsjwtxtx, qtx fqyfrjsyj sfhnitx, yzanéwfqt utw fkwjsyf nswjufwfgqj; ujwt
ij vzj rj yjslfs utw xfsint qtx jxyzinfsyjx, vzj szshf jsywfwts sn unxfwts
qfx xjsifx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf, st xj rj if zs fwinyj: hfgfqqjwt xtd d
hfgfqqjwt mj ij rtwnw xn uqfhj fq Fqyíxnrt. Zstx afs utw jq fshmt hfrut ij
qf frgnhnós xtgjwgnf; tywtx, utw jq ij qf fizqfhnós xjwanq d gfof; tywtx,
utw jq ij qf mnuthwjxíf jslfñtxf, d fqlzstx, utw jq ij qf ajwifijwf
wjqnlnós; ujwt dt, nshqnsfit ij rn jxywjqqf, atd utw qf fsltxyf xjsif ij qf
hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj, utw hzdt jojwhnhnt ijxuwjhnt qf mfhnjsif, ujwt st qf
mtswf. Dt mj xfynxkjhmt flwfantx, jsijwjefit yzjwytx, hfxynlfit
nsxtqjshnfx, ajshnit lnlfsyjx d fywtujqqfit ajxynlqtx; dt xtd jsfrtwfit, st
ráx ij utwvzj jx ktwetxt vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx qt xjfs; d, xnésitqt,
st xtd ij qtx jsfrtwfitx anhntxtx, xnst ij qtx uqfyósnhtx htsynsjsyjx. Rnx
nsyjshntsjx xnjruwj qfx jsijwjet f gzjstx knsjx, vzj xts ij mfhjw gnjs f
ytitx d rfq f snslzst; xn jq vzj jxyt jsynjsij, xn jq vzj jxyt tgwf, xn jq
vzj ijxyt ywfyf rjwjhj xjw qqfrfit gtgt, iílfsqt azjxywfx lwfsijefx, izvzj
d izvzjxf jchjqjsyjx.

-¡Gnjs, utw Intx! -inot Xfshmt-. St inlf ráx azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw d frt
rít, js xz fgtst, utwvzj st mfd ráx vzj ijhnw, sn ráx vzj ujsxfw, sn ráx
vzj ujwxjajwfw js jq rzsit. D ráx, vzj, sjlfsit jxyj xjñtw, htrt mf sjlfit,
vzj st mf mfgnit js jq rzsit, sn qtx mfd, hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ¿vzé rzhmt
vzj st xjuf snslzsf ij qfx htxfx vzj mf inhmt?

-¿Utw ajsyzwf -inot jq jhqjxnáxynht- xtnx atx, mjwrfst, fvzjq Xfshmt Ufsef
vzj inhjs, f vznjs azjxywt frt ynjsj uwtrjynif zsf ísxzqf?

-Xí xtd -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d xtd vznjs qf rjwjhj yfs gnjs htrt tywt
hzfqvznjwf; xtd vznjs "oúsyfyj f qtx gzjstx d xjwáx zst ijqqtx", d xtd dt
ij fvzjqqtx "st hts vznjs sfhjx, xnst hts vznjs ufhjx", d ij qtx "vznjs f
gzjs áwgtq xj fwwnrf, gzjsf xtrgwf qj htgnof". Dt rj mj fwwnrfit f gzjs
xjñtw, d mf rzhmtx rjxjx vzj fsit js xz htrufñíf, d mj ij xjw tywt htrt éq,
Intx vzjwnjsit; d anaf éq d anaf dt: vzj sn f éq qj kfqyfwás nrujwntx vzj
rfsifw sn f rí ísxzqfx vzj ltgjwsfw.

-St, utw hnjwyt, Xfshmt frnlt -inot f jxyf xfeós jq izvzj-, vzj dt, js
strgwj ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj, tx rfsit jq ltgnjwst ij zsf vzj yjslt ij
stsjx, ij st ujvzjñf hfqnifi.

-Míshfyj ij wtinqqfx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, d gjxf qtx unjx f Xz
Jchjqjshnf utw qf rjwhji vzj yj mf mjhmt.

Míetqt fxí Xfshmt; qt hzfq anxyt utw jq jhqjxnáxynht, xj qjafsyó ij qf
rjxf, rtmíst fijráx, inhnjsit:

-Utw jq mágnyt vzj yjslt, vzj jxytd utw ijhnw vzj jx yfs xfsint Azjxywf
Jchjqjshnf htrt jxytx ujhfitwjx. ¡Rnwfi xn st mfs ij xjw jqqtx qthtx, uzjx
qtx hzjwitx hfstsnefs xzx qthzwfx! Vzéijxj Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf hts jqqtx;
vzj, js yfsyt vzj jxyzanjwjs js hfxf, rj jxyfwé dt js qf ríf, d rj jxhzxfwé
ij wjuwjmjsijw qt vzj st uzjit wjrjinfw.

D, xns ijhnw ráx sn htrjw ráx, xj kzj, xns vzj kzjxjs ufwyj f ijyjsjwqj qtx
wzjltx ij qtx izvzjx; fzsvzj jq izvzj st qj inot rzhmt, nrujinit ij qf wnxf
vzj xz nrujwynsjsyj hóqjwf qj mfgíf hfzxfit. Fhfgó ij wjíw d inot f its
Vznotyj:

-Azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx, mf wjxutsinit utw xí yfs
fqyfrjsyj vzj st qj vzjif htxf utw xfynxkfhjw ijxyj vzj, fzsvzj ufwjhj
flwfant, st qt jx js snslzsf rfsjwf; utwvzj, fxí htrt st flwfanfs qfx
rzojwjx, st flwfanfs qtx jhqjxnáxynhtx, htrt azjxf rjwhji rjotw xfgj.

-Fxí jx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d qf hfzxf jx vzj jq vzj st uzjij xjw
flwfanfit st uzjij flwfanfw f sfinj. Qfx rzojwjx, qtx snñtx d qtx
jhqjxnáxynhtx, htrt st uzjijs ijkjsijwxj, fzsvzj xjfs tkjsinitx, st uzjijs
xjw fkwjsyfitx; utwvzj jsywj jq flwfant d qf fkwjsyf mfd jxyf inkjwjshnf,
htrt rjotw Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf xfgj: qf fkwjsyf anjsj ij ufwyj ij vznjs qf
uzjij mfhjw, d qf mfhj d qf xzxyjsyf; jq flwfant uzjij ajsnw ij hzfqvznjw
ufwyj, xns vzj fkwjsyj. Xjf jojruqt: jxyá zst js qf hfqqj ijxhznifit,
qqjlfs inje hts rfst fwrfif, d, iásitqj ij ufqtx, utsj rfst f qf jxufif d
mfhj xz ijgjw, ujwt qf rzhmjizrgwj ij qtx htsywfwntx xj qj tutsj, d st qj
ijof xfqnw hts xz nsyjshnós, vzj jx ij ajslfwxj; jxyj yfq vzjif flwfanfit,
ujwt st fkwjsyfit. D qt rjxrt htsknwrfwá tywt jojruqt: jxyá zst azjqyt ij
jxufqifx, qqjlf tywt d ifqj ij ufqtx, d js iásitxjqtx mzdj d st jxujwf, d
jq tywt qj xnlzj d st fqhfsef; jxyj vzj wjhngnó qtx ufqtx, wjhngnó flwfant,
rfx st fkwjsyf, utwvzj qf fkwjsyf mf ij xjw xzxyjsyfif. Xn jq vzj qj int
qtx ufqtx, fzsvzj xj qtx int f mzwyfhtwijq, uzxnjwf rfst f xz jxufif d xj
jxyzanjwf vzjit, mfhnjsit wtxywt f xz jsjrnlt, vzjifwf jq fufqjfit
flwfanfit d fkwjsyfit ozsyfrjsyj: flwfanfit, utwvzj qj injwts f ywfnhnós;
fkwjsyfit, utwvzj jq vzj qj int xzxyjsyó qt vzj mfgíf mjhmt, xns atqajw qfx
jxufqifx d f unj vzjit. D fxí, xjlús qfx qjdjx ijq rfqinyt izjqt, dt uzjit
jxyfw flwfanfit, rfx st fkwjsyfit; utwvzj qtx snñtx st xnjsyjs, sn qfx
rzojwjx, sn uzjijs mznw, sn ynjsjs ufwf vzé jxujwfw, d qt rjxrt qtx
htsxynyznitx js qf xfhwf wjqnlnós, utwvzj jxytx ywjx lésjwtx ij ljsyj
hfwjhjs ij fwrfx tkjsxnafx d ijkjsxnafx; d fxí, fzsvzj sfyzwfqrjsyj jxyés
tgqnlfitx f ijkjsijwxj, st qt jxyás ufwf tkjsijw f sfinj. D, fzsvzj utht mf
inoj vzj dt utiíf jxyfw flwfanfit, fltwf inlt vzj st, js snslzsf rfsjwf,
utwvzj vznjs st uzjij wjhjgnw fkwjsyf, rjstx qf uzjij ifw; utw qfx hzfqjx
wfetsjx dt st ijgt xjsynw, sn xnjsyt, qfx vzj fvzjq gzjs mtrgwj rj mf
inhmt; xóqt vznxnjwf vzj jxujwfwf fqlús utht, ufwf ifwqj f jsyjsijw js jq
jwwtw js vzj jxyá js ujsxfw d ijhnw vzj st mf mfgnit, sn qtx mfd,
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx js jq rzsit; vzj xn qt yfq tdjwf Frfiíx, t zst ij qtx
nsknsnytx ij xz qnsfoj, dt xé vzj st qj kzjwf gnjs f xz rjwhji.

-Jxt ozwt dt gnjs -inot Xfshmt-: hzhmnqqfif qj mzgnjwfs ifit vzj qj
fgwnjwfs ij fwwngf fgfot htrt zsf lwfsfif, t htrt f zs rjqós rzd rfizwt.
¡Gtsnytx jwfs jqqtx ufwf xzkwnw xjrjofsyjx htxvznqqfx! Ufwf rn xfsynlzfif,
vzj yjslt utw hnjwyt vzj xn Wjnsfqitx ij Rtsyfqgás mzgnjwf tíit jxyfx
wfetsjx fq mtrgwjhnyt, yfufgthf qj mzgnjwf ifit vzj st mfgqfwf ráx js ywjx
fñtx. ¡St, xnst ytráwfxj hts jqqtx d anjwf hórt jxhfufgf ij xzx rfstx!

Ujwjhíf ij wnxf qf izvzjxf js tdjsit mfgqfw f Xfshmt, d js xz tunsnós qj
yjsíf utw ráx lwfhntxt d utw ráx qtht vzj f xz frt; d rzhmtx mzgt js fvzjq
ynjrut vzj kzjwts ijxyj rnxrt ufwjhjw. Knsfqrjsyj, its Vznotyj xj xtxjló, d
qf htrnif xj fhfgó, d, js qjafsyfsit qtx rfsyjqjx, qqjlfwts hzfywt
itshjqqfx, qf zsf hts zsf kzjsyj ij uqfyf, d qf tywf hts zs flzfrfsnq,
fxnrnxrt ij uqfyf, d qf tywf hts itx gqfsvzíxnrfx d wnvzíxnrfx ytfqqfx fq
mtrgwt, d qf hzfwyf ijxhzgnjwytx qtx gwfetx mfxyf qf rnyfi, d js xzx
gqfshfx rfstx -vzj xns izif jwfs gqfshfx- zsf wjitsif ujqqf ij ofgós
sfutqnyfst. Qqjló qf ij qf kzjsyj, d hts ljsynq itsfnwj d ijxjsatqyzwf
jshfoó qf kzjsyj ijgfot ij qf gfwgf ij its Vznotyj; jq hzfq, xns mfgqfw
ufqfgwf, firnwfit ij xjrjofsyj hjwjrtsnf, hwjdjsit vzj ijgíf xjw zxfsef ij
fvzjqqf ynjwwf js qzlfw ij qfx rfstx qfafw qfx gfwgfx, d fxí yjsinó qf xzdf
ytit hzfsyt uzit, d fq rnxrt uzsyt htrjseó f qqtajw jq flzfrfsnq, d qf
itshjqqf ijq ofgós qj rfstxjó qfx gfwgfx hts rzhmf uwnjxf, qjafsyfsit htutx
ij snjaj, vzj st jwfs rjstx gqfshfx qfx ofgtsfizwfx, st xóqt utw qfx
gfwgfx, rfx utw ytit jq wtxywt d utw qtx totx ijq tgjinjsyj hfgfqqjwt,
yfsyt, vzj xj qtx mnhnjwts hjwwfw utw kzjwef.

Jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf, vzj ij sfif ijxyt jwfs xfgnitwjx, jxyfgfs jxujwfsit
js vzé mfgíf ij ufwfw yfs jcywftwinsfwnt qfafytwnt. Qf itshjqqf gfwgjwf,
hzfsit qj yzat hts zs ufqrt ij ofgtsfizwf, knslnó vzj xj qj mfgíf fhfgfit
jq flzf, d rfsió f qf ijq flzfrfsnq kzjxj utw jqqf, vzj jq xjñtw its
Vznotyj jxujwfwíf. Míetqt fxí, d vzjió its Vznotyj hts qf ráx jxywfñf
knlzwf d ráx ufwf mfhjw wjíw vzj xj uzinjwf nrflnsfw.

Rnwágfsqj ytitx qtx vzj uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs, vzj jwfs rzhmtx, d htrt qj ajífs
hts rjinf afwf ij hzjqqt, ráx vzj rjinfsfrjsyj rtwjst, qtx totx hjwwfitx d
qfx gfwgfx qqjsfx ij ofgós, kzj lwfs rfwfanqqf d rzhmf inxhwjhnós utijw
inxnrzqfw qf wnxf; qfx itshjqqfx ij qf gzwqf yjsífs qtx totx gfotx, xns
txfw rnwfw f xzx xjñtwjx; f jqqtx qjx wjytefgf qf hóqjwf d qf wnxf js jq
hzjwut, d st xfgífs f vzé fhzinw: t f hfxynlfw jq fywjanrnjsyt ij qfx
rzhmfhmfx, t ifwqjx uwjrnt utw jq lzxyt vzj wjhngífs ij ajw f its Vznotyj
ij fvzjqqf xzjwyj.

Knsfqrjsyj, qf itshjqqf ijq flzfrfsnq anst, d fhfgfwts ij qfafw f its
Vznotyj, d qzjlt qf vzj ywfíf qfx ytfqqfx qj qnrunó d qj jsozló rzd
wjutxfifrjsyj; d, mfhnésitqj ytifx hzfywt f qf ufw zsf lwfsij d uwtkzsif
nshqnsfhnós d wjajwjshnf, xj vzjwífs nw; ujwt jq izvzj, utwvzj its Vznotyj
st hfdjxj js qf gzwqf, qqfró f qf itshjqqf ij qf kzjsyj, inhnésitqj:

-Ajsni d qfafirj f rí, d rnwfi vzj st xj tx fhfgj jq flzf.

Qf rzhmfhmf, flzif d inqnljsyj, qqjló d uzxt qf kzjsyj fq izvzj htrt f its
Vznotyj, d, iásitxj uwnxf, qj qfafwts d ofgtsfwts rzd gnjs, d, ijoásitqj
jsozyt d qnrunt, mfhnjsit wjajwjshnfx xj kzjwts. Ijxuzéx xj xzut vzj mfgíf
ozwfit jq izvzj vzj xn f éq st qj qfafwfs htrt f its Vznotyj, mfgíf ij
hfxynlfw xz ijxjsatqyzwf, qt hzfq mfgífs jsrjsifit inxhwjyfrjsyj hts
mfgjwqj f éq ofgtsfit.

Jxyfgf fyjsyt Xfshmt f qfx hjwjrtsnfx ij fvzjq qfafytwnt, d inot jsywj xí:

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! ¿Xn xjwá yfrgnés zxfsef js jxyf ynjwwf qfafw qfx gfwgfx f
qtx jxhzijwtx htrt f qtx hfgfqqjwtx? Utwvzj, js Intx d js rn ásnrf vzj qt
mj gnjs rjsjxyjw, d fzs vzj xn rj qfx wfufxjs f sfafof, qt yjsiwíf f ráx
gjsjknhnt.

-¿Vzé ijhíx jsywj atx, Xfshmt? -uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf.

-Inlt, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó éq-, vzj js qfx htwyjx ij qtx tywtx uwíshnujx
xnjruwj mj tíit ijhnw vzj js qjafsyfsit qtx rfsyjqjx ifs flzf f qfx rfstx,
ujwt st qjoíf f qfx gfwgfx; d vzj utw jxt jx gzjst ananw rzhmt, utw ajw
rzhmt; fzsvzj yfrgnés inhjs vzj jq vzj qfwlf anif anaj rzhmt rfq mf ij
ufxfw, uzjxyt vzj ufxfw utw zs qfafytwnt ij éxytx fsyjx jx lzxyt vzj
ywfgfot.

-St yjslánx ujsf, frnlt Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf-, vzj dt mfwé vzj rnx
itshjqqfx tx qfajs, d fzs tx rjyfs js htqfif, xn kzjwj rjsjxyjw.

-Hts qfx gfwgfx rj htsyjsyt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utw fmtwf f qt rjstx, vzj
fsifsit jq ynjrut, Intx inot qt vzj xjwá.

-Rnwfi, rfjxywjxfqf -inot qf izvzjxf-, qt vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt unij, d
hzruqniqj xz atqzsyfi fq unj ij qf qjywf.

Jq rfjxywjxfqf wjxutsinó vzj js ytit xjwíf xjwanit jq xjñtw Xfshmt, d hts
jxyt xj kzj f htrjw, d qqjaó htsxnlt f Xfshmt, vzjiásitxj f qf rjxf qtx
izvzjx d its Vznotyj, mfgqfsit js rzhmfx d inajwxfx htxfx; ujwt ytifx
ythfsyjx fq jojwhnhnt ij qfx fwrfx d ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf.

Qf izvzjxf wtló f its Vznotyj vzj qj ijqnsjfxj d ijxhwngnjxj, uzjx ufwjhíf
yjsjw kjqnhj rjrtwnf, qf mjwrtxzwf d kfhhntsjx ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt; vzj, xjlús qt vzj qf kfrf uwjltsfgf ij xz gjqqjef, yjsíf utw
jsyjsinit vzj ijgíf ij xjw qf ráx gjqqf hwnfyzwf ijq twgj, d fzs ij ytif qf
Rfshmf. Xtxunwó its Vznotyj, tdjsit qt vzj qf izvzjxf qj rfsifgf, d inot:

-Xn dt uzinjwf xfhfw rn htwfeós d utsjwqj fsyj qtx totx ij azjxywf
lwfsijef, fvzí, xtgwj jxyf rjxf d js zs uqfyt, vznyfwf jq ywfgfot f rn
qjslzf ij ijhnw qt vzj fujsfx xj uzjij ujsxfw, utwvzj Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf qf
anjwf js éq ytif wjywfyfif; ujwt, ¿ufwf vzé jx utsjwrj dt fmtwf f ijqnsjfw
d ijxhwngnw uzsyt utw uzsyt d ufwyj utw ufwyj qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf xns ufw
Izqhnsjf, xnjsit hfwlf inlsf ij tywtx mtrgwtx vzj ij qtx rítx, jruwjxf js
vznjs xj ijgífs thzufw qtx unshjqjx ij Ufwwfxnt, ij Ynrfsyjx d ij Fujqjx, d
qtx gzwnqjx ij Qnxnut, ufwf unsyfwqf d lwfgfwqf js yfgqfx, js ráwrtqjx d js
gwtshjx, d qf wjyównhf hnhjwtsnfsf d ijrtxynsf ufwf fqfgfwqf?

-¿Vzé vznjwj ijhnw ijrtxynsf, xjñtw its Vznotyj -uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf-, vzj
jx athfgqt vzj st qj mj tíit js ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif?

-Wjyównhf ijrtxynsf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- jx qt rnxrt vzj ijhnw wjyównhf
ij Ijróxyjsjx, htrt hnhjwtsnfsf, ij Hnhjwós, vzj kzjwts qtx itx rfdtwjx
wjyównhtx ijq rzsit.

-Fxí jx -inot jq izvzj-, d mfgénx fsifit ijxqzrgwfif js qf yfq uwjlzsyf.
Ujwt, hts ytit jxt, stx ifwíf lwfs lzxyt jq xjñtw its Vznotyj xn stx qf
unsyfxj; vzj f gzjs xjlzwt vzj, fzsvzj xjf js wfxlzñt d gtxvzjot, vzj jqqf
xfqlf yfq, vzj qf yjslfs nsaninf qfx ráx mjwrtxfx.

-Xí mnhnjwf, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xn st rj qf mzgnjwf
gtwwfit ij qf nijf qf ijxlwfhnf vzj utht mf vzj qj xzhjinó, vzj jx yfq, vzj
ráx jxytd ufwf qqtwfwqf vzj ufwf ijxhwngnwqf; utwvzj mfgwás ij xfgjw
azjxywfx lwfsijefx vzj, djsit qtx iífx ufxfitx f gjxfwqj qfx rfstx, d f
wjhjgnw xz gjsinhnós, gjsjuqáhnyt d qnhjshnf ufwf jxyf yjwhjwf xfqnif,
mfqqé tywf ij qf vzj gzxhfgf: mfqqéqf jshfsyfif d htsajwynif ij uwnshjxf js
qfgwfitwf, ij mjwrtxf js kjf, ij ásljq js infgqt, ij tqtwtxf js ujxyíkjwf,
ij gnjs mfgqfif js wúxynhf, ij wjutxfif js gwnshfitwf, ij qze js ynsnjgqfx,
d, knsfqrjsyj, ij Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt js zsf anqqfsf ij Xfdflt.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! -ifsit zsf lwfs ate, inot f jxyj nsxyfsyj jq izvzj-. ¿Vznés
mf xnit jq vzj yfsyt rfq mf mjhmt fq rzsit? ¿Vznés mf vznyfit iéq qf
gjqqjef vzj qj fqjlwfgf, jq itsfnwj vzj qj jsywjyjsíf d qf mtsjxynifi vzj
qj fhwjinyfgf?

-¿Vznés? -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. ¿Vznés uzjij xjw xnst fqlús rfqnlst
jshfsyfitw ij qtx rzhmtx nsanintxtx vzj rj ujwxnlzjs? Jxyf wfef rfqinyf,
sfhnif js jq rzsit ufwf jxhzwjhjw d fsnvznqfw qfx mfefñfx ij qtx gzjstx, d
ufwf ifw qze d qjafsyfw qtx kjhmtx ij qtx rfqtx. Ujwxjlznit rj mfs
jshfsyfitwjx, jshfsyfitwjx rj ujwxnlzjs d jshfsyfitwjx rj ujwxnlznwás mfxyf
ifw htsrnlt d hts rnx fqyfx hfgfqqjwífx js jq uwtkzsit fgnxrt ijq tqanit; d
js fvzjqqf ufwyj rj ifñfs d mnjwjs itsij ajjs vzj ráx qt xnjsyt, utwvzj
vznyfwqj f zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj xz ifrf jx vznyfwqj qtx totx hts vzj rnwf,
d jq xtq hts vzj xj fqzrgwf, d jq xzxyjsyt hts vzj xj rfsynjsj. Tywfx
rzhmfx ajhjx qt mj inhmt, d fmtwf qt azjqat f ijhnw: vzj jq hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj xns ifrf jx htrt jq áwgtq xns mtofx, jq jinknhnt xns hnrnjsyt d qf
xtrgwf xns hzjwut ij vznjs xj hfzxj.

-St mfd ráx vzj ijhnw -inot qf izvzjxf-; ujwt xn, hts ytit jxt, mjrtx ij
ifw hwéinyt f qf mnxytwnf vzj ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij uthtx iífx f jxyf
ufwyj mf xfqnit f qf qze ijq rzsit, hts ljsjwfq fuqfzxt ij qfx ljsyjx,
ijqqf xj htqnlj, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, vzj szshf azjxf rjwhji mf anxyt f qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, d vzj jxyf yfq xjñtwf st jx js jq rzsit, xnst vzj jx ifrf
kfsyáxynhf, vzj azjxf rjwhji qf jsljsiwó d ufwnó js xz jsyjsinrnjsyt, d qf
unsyó hts ytifx fvzjqqfx lwfhnfx d ujwkjhntsjx vzj vznxt.

-Js jxt mfd rzhmt vzj ijhnw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Intx xfgj xn mfd
Izqhnsjf t st js jq rzsit, t xn jx kfsyáxynhf t st jx kfsyáxynhf; d éxyfx
st xts ij qfx htxfx hzdf fajwnlzfhnós xj mf ij qqjafw mfxyf jq hfgt. Sn dt
jsljsiwé sn ufwí f rn xjñtwf, uzjxyt vzj qf htsyjruqt htrt htsanjsj vzj xjf
zsf ifrf vzj htsyjslf js xí qfx ufwyjx vzj uzjifs mfhjwqf kfrtxf js ytifx
qfx ijq rzsit, htrt xts: mjwrtxf, xns yfhmf, lwfaj xns xtgjwgnf, frtwtxf
hts mtsjxynifi, flwfijhnif utw htwyéx, htwyéx utw gnjs hwnfif, d,
knsfqrjsyj, fqyf utw qnsfoj, f hfzxf vzj xtgwj qf gzjsf xfslwj wjxuqfsijhj
d hfrujf qf mjwrtxzwf hts ráx lwfitx ij ujwkjhnós vzj js qfx mjwrtxfx
mzrnqijrjsyj sfhnifx.

-Fxí jx -inot jq izvzj-; ujwt mfrj ij ifw qnhjshnf jq xjñtw its Vznotyj
ufwf vzj inlf qt vzj rj kzjwef f ijhnw qf mnxytwnf vzj ij xzx mfefñfx mj
qjíit, ij itsij xj nsknjwj vzj, uzjxyt vzj xj htshjif vzj mfd Izqhnsjf, js
jq Ytgtxt t kzjwf iéq, d vzj xjf mjwrtxf js jq xzrt lwfit vzj azjxf rjwhji
stx qf unsyf, js qt ij qf fqyjef ijq qnsfoj st htwwj ufwjofx hts qfx
Twnfsfx, hts qfx Fqfxywfofwjfx, hts qfx Rfiáxnrfx, sn hts tywfx ijxyj ofje,
ij vznjs jxyás qqjsfx qfx mnxytwnfx vzj azjxf rjwhji gnjs xfgj.

-F jxt uzjit ijhnw -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj Izqhnsjf jx mnof ij xzx
tgwfx, d vzj qfx anwyzijx fitgfs qf xfslwj, d vzj js ráx xj mf ij jxynrfw d
yjsjw zs mzrnqij anwyztxt vzj zs anhntxt qjafsyfit; hzfsyt ráx, vzj
Izqhnsjf ynjsj zs onwós vzj qf uzjij qqjafw f xjw wjnsf ij htwtsf d hjuywt;
vzj jq rjwjhnrnjsyt ij zsf rzojw mjwrtxf d anwyztxf f mfhjw rfdtwjx
rnqflwtx xj jxynjsij, d, fzsvzj st ktwrfqrjsyj, anwyzfqrjsyj ynjsj js xí
jshjwwfifx rfdtwjx ajsyzwfx.

-Inlt, xjñtw its Vznotyj -inot qf izvzjxf-, vzj js ytit hzfsyt azjxywf
rjwhji inhj af hts unj ij uqtrt, d, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, hts qf xtsif js qf
rfst; d vzj dt ijxij fvzí fijqfsyj hwjjwé d mfwé hwjjw f ytitx qtx ij rn
hfxf, d fzs fq izvzj rn xjñtw, xn kzjwj rjsjxyjw, vzj mfd Izqhnsjf js jq
Ytgtxt, d vzj anaj mtd iíf, d jx mjwrtxf, d uwnshnufqrjsyj sfhnif d
rjwjhjitwf vzj zs yfq hfgfqqjwt htrt jx jq xjñtw its Vznotyj qf xnwaf; vzj
jx qt ráx vzj uzjit sn xé jshfwjhjw. Ujwt st uzjit ijofw ij ktwrfw zs
jxhwúuzqt, d yjsjw fqlús st xé vzé ij tojwnef htsywf Xfshmt Ufsef: jq
jxhwúuzqt jx vzj inhj qf mnxytwnf wjkjwnif vzj jq yfq Xfshmt Ufsef mfqqó f
qf yfq xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, hzfsit ij ufwyj ij azjxywf rjwhji qj qqjaó zsf
juíxytqf, fmjhmfsit zs htxyfq ij ywnlt, d, utw ráx xjñfx, inhj vzj jwf
wzgnós: htxf vzj rj mfhj izifw js qf fqyjef ij xz qnsfoj.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Xjñtwf ríf, xfgwá qf azjxywf lwfsijef vzj ytifx t qfx ráx htxfx vzj f rí
rj xzhjijs afs kzjwf ij qtx yéwrnstx twinsfwntx ij qfx vzj f qtx tywtx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx fhtsyjhjs, t df xjfs jshfrnsfifx utw jq vzjwjw
nsjxhwzyfgqj ij qtx mfitx, t df ajslfs jshfrnsfifx utw qf rfqnhnf ij fqlús
jshfsyfitw nsanintxt; d, htrt jx htxf df fajwnlzfif vzj ytitx t qtx ráx
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx d kfrtxtx, zst yjslf lwfhnf ij st utijw xjw jshfsyfit,
tywt ij xjw ij yfs nrujsjywfgqjx hfwsjx vzj st uzjif xjw mjwnit, htrt qt
kzj jq kfrtxt Wtqiás, zst ij qtx ithj Ufwjx ij Kwfshnf, ij vznjs xj hzjsyf
vzj st utiíf xjw kjwnit xnst utw qf uqfsyf ijq unj nevznjwit, d vzj jxyt
mfgíf ij xjw hts qf uzsyf ij zs fqknqjw ltwit, d st hts tywf xzjwyj ij fwrf
fqlzsf; d fxí, hzfsit Gjwsfwit ijq Hfwunt qj rfyó js Wtshjxafqqjx, anjsit
vzj st qj utiíf qqflfw hts knjwwt, qj qjafsyó ijq xzjqt jsywj qtx gwfetx d
qj fmtló, fhtwiásitxj jsytshjx ij qf rzjwyj vzj int Méwhzqjx f Fsyjós,
fvzjq kjwte lnlfsyj vzj ijhífs xjw mnot ij qf Ynjwwf. Vznjwt nskjwnw ij qt
inhmt, vzj utiwíf xjw vzj dt yzanjxj fqlzsf lwfhnf iéxyfx, st ijq st
utijw xjw kjwnit, utwvzj rzhmfx ajhjx qf jcujwnjshnf rj mf rtxywfit vzj xtd
ij hfwsjx gqfsifx d st sfif nrujsjywfgqjx, sn qf ij st utijw xjw jshfsyfit,
vzj df rj mj anxyt rjynit js zsf ofzqf, itsij ytit jq rzsit st kzjwf
utijwtxt f jshjwwfwrj, xn st kzjwf f kzjwefx ij jshfsyfrjsytx; ujwt, uzjx
ij fvzéq rj qngwé, vznjwt hwjjw vzj st mf ij mfgjw tywt fqlzst vzj rj
jrujehf; d fxí, anjsit jxytx jshfsyfitwjx vzj hts rn ujwxtsf st uzjijs zxfw
ij xzx rfqfx rfñfx, aéslfsxj js qfx htxfx vzj ráx vznjwt, d vznjwjs
vznyfwrj qf anif rfqywfyfsit qf ij Izqhnsjf, utw vznjs dt anat; d fxí, hwjt
vzj, hzfsit rn jxhzijwt qj qqjaó rn jrgfofif, xj qf htsanwynjwts js anqqfsf
d thzufif js yfs gfot jojwhnhnt htrt jx jq ij fmjhmfw ywnlt; ujwt df yjslt
dt inhmt vzj fvzjq ywnlt sn jwf wzgnós sn ywnlt, xnst lwfstx ij ujwqfx
twnjsyfqjx; d ufwf uwzjgf ijxyf ajwifi vznjwt ijhnw f azjxywfx rflsnyzijx
hórt, ansnjsit utht mf utw jq Ytgtxt, ofráx uzij mfqqfw qtx ufqfhntx ij
Izqhnsjf; d vzj tywt iíf, mfgnésitqf anxyt Xfshmt, rn jxhzijwt, js xz rjxrf
knlzwf, vzj jx qf ráx gjqqf ijq twgj, f rí rj ufwjhnó zsf qfgwfitwf ytxhf d
kjf, d st sfif gnjs wfetsfif, xnjsit qf inxhwjhnós ijq rzsit; d, uzjx dt st
jxytd jshfsyfit, sn qt uzjit jxyfw, xjlús gzjs inxhzwxt, jqqf jx qf
jshfsyfif, qf tkjsinif d qf rzifif, ywthfif d ywfxywthfif, d js jqqf xj mfs
ajslfit ij rí rnx jsjrnltx, d utw jqqf ananwé dt js ujwujyzfx qálwnrfx,
mfxyf ajwqf js xz uwíxynst jxyfit. Ytit jxyt mj inhmt ufwf vzj sfinj wjufwj
js qt vzj Xfshmt inot ijq hjwsnit sn ijq fmjhmt ij Izqhnsjf; vzj, uzjx f rí
rj qf rzifwts, st jx rfwfanqqf vzj f éq xj qf hfrgnfxjs. Izqhnsjf jx
uwnshnufq d gnjs sfhnif, d ij qtx mnifqltx qnsfojx vzj mfd js jq Ytgtxt,
vzj xts rzhmtx, fsynlztx d rzd gzjstx, f gzjs xjlzwt vzj st qj hfgj uthf
ufwyj f qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf, utw vznjs xz qzlfw xjwá kfrtxt d strgwfit js
qtx ajsnijwtx xnlqtx, htrt qt mf xnit Ywtdf utw Jqjsf, d Jxufñf utw qf
Hfaf, fzsvzj hts rjotw yíyzqt d kfrf. Utw tywf ufwyj, vznjwt vzj jsynjsifs
azjxywfx xjñtwífx vzj Xfshmt Ufsef jx zst ij qtx ráx lwfhntxtx jxhzijwtx
vzj ofráx xnwanó f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj; ynjsj f ajhjx zsfx xnruqnhnifijx yfs
flzifx, vzj jq ujsxfw xn jx xnruqj t flzit hfzxf st ujvzjñt htsyjsyt; ynjsj
rfqnhnfx vzj qj htsijsfs utw gjqqfht, d ijxhznitx vzj qj htsknwrfs utw
gtgt; izif ij ytit d hwéjqt ytit; hzfsit unjsxt vzj xj af f ijxujñfw ij
ytsyt, xfqj hts zsfx inxhwjhntsjx, vzj qj qjafsyfs fq hnjqt. Knsfqrjsyj, dt
st qj ywthfwíf hts tywt jxhzijwt, fzsvzj rj injxjs ij fñfinizwf zsf hnzifi;
d fxí, jxytd js izif xn xjwá gnjs jsanfwqj fq ltgnjwst ij vznjs azjxywf
lwfsijef qj mf mjhmt rjwhji; fzsvzj ajt js éq zsf hnjwyf fuynyzi ufwf jxyt
ij ltgjwsfw, vzj fyzxásitqj yfsynht jq jsyjsinrnjsyt, xj xfqiwíf hts
hzfqvznjwf ltgnjwst, htrt jq wjd hts xzx fqhfgfqfx; d ráx, vzj df utw
rzhmfx jcujwnjshnfx xfgjrtx vzj st jx rjsjxyjw sn rzhmf mfgnqnifi sn rzhmfx
qjywfx ufwf xjw zst ltgjwsfitw, uzjx mfd utw fmí hnjsyt vzj fujsfx xfgjw
qjjw, d ltgnjwsfs htrt zstx lnwnkfqyjx; jq ytvzj jxyá js vzj yjslfs gzjsf
nsyjshnós d ijxjjs fhjwyfw js ytit; vzj szshf qjx kfqyfwá vznjs qjx
fhtsxjoj d jshfrnsj js qt vzj mfs ij mfhjw, htrt qtx ltgjwsfitwjx
hfgfqqjwtx d st qjywfitx, vzj xjsyjshnfs hts fxjxtw. Fhtsxjofwífqj dt vzj
sn ytrj htmjhmt, sn unjwif ijwjhmt, d tywfx htxnqqfx vzj rj vzjifs js jq
jxyórflt, vzj xfqiwás f xz ynjrut, ufwf zynqnifi ij Xfshmt d uwtajhmt ij qf
ísxzqf vzj ltgjwsfwj.

F jxyj uzsyt qqjlfgfs ij xz htqtvznt jq izvzj, qf izvzjxf d its Vznotyj,
hzfsit tdjwts rzhmfx athjx d lwfs wzrtw ij ljsyj js jq ufqfhnt; d f ijxmtwf
jsywó Xfshmt js qf xfqf, ytit fxzxyfit, hts zs hjwsfijwt utw gfgfitw, d
ywfx éq rzhmtx rtetx, t, utw rjotw ijhnw, uíhfwtx ij hthnsf d tywf ljsyj
rjszif, d zst ajsíf hts zs fwyjxtshnqqt ij flzf, vzj js qf htqtw d uthf
qnrunjef rtxywfgf xjw ij kwjlfw; xjlzífqj d ujwxjlzífqj jq ij qf fwyjxf, d
uwthzwfgf hts ytif xtqnhnyzi utséwxjqf d jshfoáwxjqf ijgfot ij qfx gfwgfx,
d tywt uíhfwt rtxywfgf vzjwéwxjqfx qfafw.

-¿Vzé jx jxyt, mjwrfstx? -uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf-. ¿Vzé jx jxyt? ¿Vzé vzjwénx
f jxj gzjs mtrgwj? ¿Hórt d st htsxnijwánx vzj jxyá jqjhyt ltgjwsfitw?

F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq uíhfwt gfwgjwt:

-St vznjwj jxyj xjñtw ijofwxj qfafw, htrt jx zxfsef, d htrt xj qf qfaó jq
izvzj rn xjñtw d jq xjñtw xz frt.

-Xí vznjwt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt hts rzhmf hóqjwf-, ujwt vzjwwíf vzj kzjxj hts
ytfqqfx ráx qnrunfx, hts qjoíf rfx hqfwf d hts rfstx st yfs xzhnfx; vzj st
mfd yfsyf inkjwjshnf ij rí f rn frt, vzj f éq qj qfajs hts flzf ij ásljqjx
d f rí hts qjoíf ij infgqtx. Qfx zxfsefx ij qfx ynjwwfx d ij qtx ufqfhntx
ij qtx uwíshnujx yfsyt xts gzjsfx hzfsyt st ifs ujxfizrgwj, ujwt qf
htxyzrgwj ijq qfafytwnt vzj fvzí xj zxf ujtw jx vzj ij inhnuqnsfsyjx. Dt
jxytd qnrunt ij gfwgfx d st yjslt sjhjxnifi ij xjrjofsyjx wjkwnljwntx; d jq
vzj xj qqjlfwj f qfafwrj sn f ythfwrj f zs ujqt ij qf hfgjef, inlt, ij rn
gfwgf, mfgqfsit hts jq ijgnit fhfyfrnjsyt, qj ifwé yfq uzñfif vzj qj ijoj
jq uzñt jslfxyfit js qtx hfxhtx; vzj jxyfx yfqjx hjwjrtsnfx d ofgtsfizwfx
ráx ufwjhjs gzwqfx vzj lfxfotx ij mzéxujijx.

Ujwjhnif ij wnxf jxyfgf qf izvzjxf, anjsit qf hóqjwf d tdjsit qfx wfetsjx
ij Xfshmt, ujwt st int rzhmt lzxyt f its Vznotyj ajwqj yfs rfq fijqnñfit
hts qf ofxujfif ytfqqf, d yfs wtijfit ij yfsytx jsywjyjsnitx ij hthnsf; d
fxí, mfhnjsit zsf uwtkzsif wjajwjshnf f qtx izvzjx, htrt vzj qjx ujiíf
qnhjshnf ufwf mfgqfw, hts ate wjutxfif inot f qf hfsfqqf:

-¡Mtqf, xjñtwjx hfgfqqjwtx! Azjxfx rjwhjijx ijojs fq rfshjgt, d azéqafsxj
utw itsij ansnjwts, t utw tywf ufwyj xn xj qjx fsytofwj, vzj rn jxhzijwt jx
qnrunt yfsyt htrt tywt, d jxfx fwyjxnqqfx xts ufwf éq jxywjhmfx d ujsfsyjx
gúhfwtx. Ytrjs rn htsxjot d iéojsqj, utwvzj sn éq sn dt xfgjrtx ij fhmfvzj
ij gzwqfx.

Htlnóqj qf wfeós ij qf gthf Xfshmt, d uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-¡St, xnst qqélzjsxj f mfhjw gzwqf ijq rtxywjsht, vzj fxí qt xzkwnwé htrt
fmtwf jx ij sthmj! Ywfnlfs fvzí zs ujnsj, t qt vzj vznxnjwjs, d fqrtmáhjsrj
jxyfx gfwgfx, d xn xfhfwjs ijqqfx htxf vzj tkjsif f qf qnrunjef, vzj rj
ywfxvznqjs f hwzhjx.

F jxyf xfeós, xns ijofw qf wnxf, inot qf izvzjxf:

-Xfshmt Ufsef ynjsj wfeós js ytit hzfsyt mf inhmt, d qf yjsiwá js ytit
hzfsyt inojwj: éq jx qnrunt, d, htrt éq inhj, st ynjsj sjhjxnifi ij
qfafwxj; d xn szjxywf zxfsef st qj htsyjsyf, xz fqrf js xz ufqrf, hzfsyt
ráx, vzj atxtywtx, rnsnxywtx ij qf qnrunjef, mfgénx fsifit ijrfxnfifrjsyj
ij wjrnxtx d ijxhznifitx, d st xé xn inlf fywjanitx, f ywfjw f yfq
ujwxtsfoj d f yfqjx gfwgfx, js qzlfw ij kzjsyjx d flzfrfsnqjx ij twt uzwt d
ij fqjrfsfx ytfqqfx, fwyjxnqqfx d itwsfotx ij ufqt d wtinqqfx ij
fufwfitwjx. Ujwt, js kns, xtnx rfqtx d rfq sfhnitx, d st utiénx ijofw, htrt
rfqfsiwnsjx vzj xtnx, ij rtxywfw qf tojwnef vzj yjsénx hts qtx jxhzijwtx ij
qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx.

Hwjdjwts qtx funhfwfitx rnsnxywtx, d fzs jq rfjxywjxfqf, vzj ajsíf hts
jqqtx, vzj qf izvzjxf mfgqfgf ij ajwfx; d fxí, vznyfwts jq hjwsfijwt ijq
ujhmt ij Xfshmt, d ytitx htskzxtx d hfxn htwwnitx xj kzjwts d qj ijofwts;
jq hzfq, anésitxj kzjwf ij fvzjq, f xz ufwjhjw, xzrt ujqnlwt, xj kzj f
mnshfw ij wtinqqfx fsyj qf izvzjxf d inot:

-Ij lwfsijx xjñtwfx, lwfsijx rjwhjijx xj jxujwfs; jxyf vzj qf azjxywf
rjwhji mtd rj mf kjhmt st uzjij uflfwxj hts rjstx, xn st jx hts ijxjfw
ajwrj fwrfit hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, ufwf thzufwrj ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif js
xjwanw f yfs fqyf xjñtwf. Qfgwfitw xtd, Xfshmt Ufsef rj qqfrt, hfxfit xtd,
mnotx yjslt d ij jxhzijwt xnwat: xn hts fqlzsf ijxyfx htxfx uzjit xjwanw f
azjxywf lwfsijef, rjstx yfwifwé dt js tgjijhjw vzj azjxywf xjñtwíf js
rfsifw.

-Gnjs ufwjhj, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf-, vzj mfgénx fuwjsinit f xjw
htwyéx js qf jxhzjqf ij qf rnxrf htwyjxíf; gnjs ufwjhj, vznjwt ijhnw, vzj
tx mfgénx hwnfit f qtx ujhmtx ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj ijgj ij xjw qf
sfyf ij qtx htrjinrnjsytx d qf kqtw ij qfx hjwjrtsnfx, t hnwnrtsnfx, htrt
atx ijhíx. Gnjs mfdf yfq xjñtw d yfq hwnfit: jq zst, utw stwyj ij qf
fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf; d jq tywt, utw jxywjqqf ij qf jxhzijwnq knijqnifi.
Qjafsyftx, Xfshmt frnlt, vzj dt xfynxkfwé azjxywfx htwyjxífx hts mfhjw vzj
jq izvzj rn xjñtw, qt ráx uwjxyt vzj uzinjwj, tx hzruqf qf rjwhji uwtrjynif
ijq ltgnjwst.

Hts jxyt hjxó qf uqáynhf, d its Vznotyj xj kzj f wjutxfw qf xnjxyf, d qf
izvzjxf uninó f Xfshmt vzj, xn st yjsíf rzhmf lfsf ij itwrnw, ansnjxj f
ufxfw qf yfwij hts jqqf d hts xzx itshjqqfx js zsf rzd kwjxhf xfqf. Xfshmt
wjxutsinó vzj, fzsvzj jwf ajwifi vzj yjsíf utw htxyzrgwj itwrnw hzfywt t
hnsht mtwfx qfx xnjxyfx ijq ajwfst, vzj, utw xjwanw f xz gtsifi, éq
uwthzwfwíf hts ytifx xzx kzjwefx st itwrnw fvzjq iíf snslzsf, d ajsiwíf
tgjinjsyj f xz rfsifit, d kzjxj. Jq izvzj int szjafx ówijsjx htrt xj
ywfyfxj f its Vznotyj htrt f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, xns xfqnw zs uzsyt ijq
jxynqt htrt hzjsyfs vzj xj ywfyfgfs qtx fsynlztx hfgfqqjwtx.





Hfuíyzqt CCCNNN. Ij qf xfgwtxf uqáynhf vzj qf izvzjxf d xzx itshjqqfx
ufxfwts hts Xfshmt Ufsef, inlsf ij vzj xj qjf d ij vzj xj styj


Hzjsyf, uzjx, qf mnxytwnf, vzj Xfshmt st izwrnó fvzjqqf xnjxyf, xnst vzj,
utw hzruqnw xz ufqfgwf, anst js htrnjsit f ajw f qf izvzjxf; qf hzfq, hts
jq lzxyt vzj yjsíf ij tíwqj, qj mnet xjsyfw ozsyt f xí js zsf xnqqf gfof,
fzsvzj Xfshmt, ij uzwt gnjs hwnfit, st vzjwíf xjsyfwxj; ujwt qf izvzjxf qj
inot vzj xj xjsyfxj htrt ltgjwsfitw d mfgqfxj htrt jxhzijwt, uzjxyt vzj utw
jsywfrgfx htxfx rjwjhíf jq rnxrt jxhfñt ijq Hni Wzd Iífe Hfrujfitw.

Jshtlnó Xfshmt qtx mtrgwtx, tgjijhnó d xjsyóxj, d ytifx qfx itshjqqfx d
izjñfx ij qf izvzjxf qf wtijfwts, fyjsyfx, hts lwfsiíxnrt xnqjshnt, f
jxhzhmfw qt vzj inwíf; ujwt qf izvzjxf kzj qf vzj mfgqó uwnrjwt, inhnjsit:

-Fmtwf vzj jxyfrtx xtqtx, d vzj fvzí st stx tdj sfinj, vzjwwíf dt vzj jq
xjñtw ltgjwsfitw rj fxtqanjxj hnjwyfx izifx vzj yjslt, sfhnifx ij qf
mnxytwnf vzj ijq lwfs its Vznotyj fsif df nruwjxf; zsf ij qfx hzfqjx izifx
jx vzj, uzjx jq gzjs Xfshmt szshf ant f Izqhnsjf, inlt, f qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, sn qj qqjaó qf hfwyf ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj, utwvzj xj
vzjió js jq qngwt ij rjrtwnf js Xnjwwf Rtwjsf, hórt xj fywjanó f knslnw qf
wjxuzjxyf, d fvzjqqt ij vzj qf mfqqó fmjhmfsit ywnlt, xnjsit ytit gzwqf d
rjsynwf, d yfs js ifñt ij qf gzjsf tunsnós ij qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf, d ytifx
vzj st anjsjs gnjs hts qf hfqnifi d knijqnifi ij qtx gzjstx jxhzijwtx.

F jxyfx wfetsjx, xns wjxutsijw hts fqlzsf, xj qjafsyó Xfshmt ij qf xnqqf,
d, hts ufxtx vzjitx, jq hzjwut fltgnfit d jq ijit uzjxyt xtgwj qtx qfgntx,
fsizat utw ytif qf xfqf qjafsyfsit qtx itxjqjx; d qzjlt, jxyt mjhmt, xj
atqanó f xjsyfw d inot:

-Fmtwf, xjñtwf ríf, vzj mj anxyt vzj st stx jxhzhmf sfinj ij xtqfuf, kzjwf
ij qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx, xns yjrtw sn xtgwjxfqyt wjxutsijwé f qt vzj xj rj mf
uwjlzsyfit, d f ytit fvzjqqt vzj xj rj uwjlzsyfwj; d qt uwnrjwt vzj inlt jx
vzj dt yjslt f rn xjñtw its Vznotyj utw qtht wjrfyfit, uzjxyt vzj fqlzsfx
ajhjx inhj htxfx vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, d fzs ij ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qj
jxhzhmfs, xts yfs inxhwjyfx d utw yfs gzjs hfwwnq jshfrnsfifx, vzj jq rjxrt
Xfyfsáx st qfx utiwíf ijhnw rjotwjx; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, ajwifijwfrjsyj d
xns jxhwúuzqt, f rí xj rj mf fxjsyfit vzj jx zs rjsyjhfyt. Uzjx, htrt dt
yjslt jxyt js jq rflís, rj fywjat f mfhjwqj hwjjw qt vzj st qqjaf unjx sn
hfgjef, htrt kzj fvzjqqt ij qf wjxuzjxyf ij qf hfwyf, d qt ij mfgwá xjnx t
thmt iífx, vzj fús st jxyá js mnxytwnf; htsanjsj f xfgjw: qt ijq jshfsyt ij
rn xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsjf, vzj qj mj ifit f jsyjsijw vzj jxyá jshfsyfif, st
xnjsit ráx ajwifi vzj utw qtx hjwwtx ij Úgjif.

Wtlóqj qf izvzjxf vzj qj htsyfxj fvzjq jshfsyfrjsyt t gzwqf, d Xfshmt xj qt
htsyó ytit ijq rjxrt rtit vzj mfgíf ufxfit, ij vzj st utht lzxyt wjhngnjwts
qtx tdjsyjx; d, uwtxnlznjsit js xz uqáynhf, inot qf izvzjxf:

-Ij qt vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt rj mf htsyfit rj fsif gwnshfsit zs jxhwúuzqt js
jq fqrf d zs hnjwyt xzxzwwt qqjlf f rnx tíitx, vzj rj inhj: ''Uzjx its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf jx qtht, rjslzfit d rjsyjhfyt, d Xfshmt Ufsef xz
jxhzijwt qt htsthj, d, hts ytit jxt, qj xnwaj d qj xnlzj d af fyjsnit f qfx
afsfx uwtrjxfx xzdfx, xns izif fqlzsf ijgj ij xjw éq ráx qtht d ytsyt vzj
xz frt; d, xnjsit jxyt fxí, htrt qt jx, rfq htsyfit yj xjwá, xjñtwf
izvzjxf, xn fq yfq Xfshmt Ufsef qj ifx ísxzqf vzj ltgnjwsj, utwvzj jq vzj
st xfgj ltgjwsfwxj f xí, ¿hórt xfgwá ltgjwsfw f tywtx?''

-Ufw Intx, xjñtwf -inot Xfshmt-, vzj jxj jxhwúuzqt anjsj hts ufwyt ijwjhmt;
ujwt iílfqj azjxf rjwhji vzj mfgqj hqfwt, t htrt vznxnjwj, vzj dt htsteht
vzj inhj ajwifi: vzj xn dt kzjwf inxhwjyt, iífx mf vzj mfgíf ij mfgjw
ijofit f rn frt. Ujwt éxyf kzj rn xzjwyj, d éxyf rn rfqfsifsef; st uzjit
ráx, xjlznwqj yjslt: xtrtx ij zs rnxrt qzlfw, mj htrnit xz ufs, vznéwtqj
gnjs, jx flwfijhnit, intrj xzx utqqnstx, d, xtgwj ytit, dt xtd knjq; d fxí,
jx nrutxngqj vzj stx uzjif fufwyfw tywt xzhjxt vzj jq ij qf ufqf d fefiós.
D xn azjxywf fqyfsjwíf st vznxnjwj vzj xj rj ié jq uwtrjynit ltgnjwst, ij
rjstx rj mnet Intx, d utiwíf xjw vzj jq st iáwrjqj wjizsifxj js uwt ij rn
htshnjshnf; vzj, rflzjwf ytsyt, xj rj jsynjsij fvzjq wjkwás ij ''utw xz rfq
qj sfhnjwts fqfx f qf mtwrnlf''; d fzs utiwíf xjw vzj xj kzjxj ráx físf
Xfshmt jxhzijwt fq hnjqt, vzj st Xfshmt ltgjwsfitw. Yfs gzjs ufs mfhjs fvzí
htrt js Kwfshnf; d ij sthmj ytitx qtx lfytx xts ufwitx, d fxfe ij
ijxinhmfif jx qf ujwxtsf vzj f qfx itx ij qf yfwij st xj mf ijxfdzsfit; d
st mfd jxyórflt vzj xjf zs ufqrt rfdtw vzj tywt, jq hzfq xj uzjij qqjsfw,
htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, ij ufof d ij mjst; d qfx fajhnyfx ijq hfrut ynjsjs f
Intx utw xz uwtajjitw d ijxujsxjwt; d ráx hfqnjsyfs hzfywt afwfx ij ufñt ij
Hzjshf vzj tywfx hzfywt ij qírnxyj ij Xjltanf; d fq ijofw jxyj rzsit d
rjyjwstx qf ynjwwf fijsywt, utw yfs jxywjhmf xjsif af jq uwíshnuj htrt jq
otwsfqjwt, d st thzuf ráx unjx ij ynjwwf jq hzjwut ijq Ufuf vzj jq ijq
xfhwnxyás, fzsvzj xjf ráx fqyt jq zst vzj jq tywt; vzj fq jsywfw js jq mtdt
ytitx stx fozxyfrtx d jshtljrtx, t stx mfhjs fozxyfw d jshtljw, rfq vzj stx
ujxj d f gzjsfx sthmjx. D ytwst f ijhnw vzj xn azjxywf xjñtwíf st rj
vznxnjwj ifw qf ísxzqf utw ytsyt, dt xfgwé st iáwxjrj sfif utw inxhwjyt; d
dt mj tíit ijhnw vzj ijywáx ij qf hwze jxyá jq infgqt, d vzj st jx twt ytit
qt vzj wjqzhj, d vzj ij jsywj qtx gzjdjx, fwfitx d htdzsifx xfhfwts fq
qfgwfitw Bfrgf ufwf xjw wjd ij Jxufñf, d ij jsywj qtx gwthfitx, ufxfynjrutx
d wnvzjefx xfhfwts f Wtiwnlt ufwf xjw htrnit ij hzqjgwfx, xn jx vzj qfx
ywtafx ij qtx wtrfshjx fsynlztx st rnjsyjs.

-D ¡hórt vzj st rnjsyjs! -inot f jxyf xfeós itñf Wtiwílzje qf izjñf, vzj
jwf zsf ij qfx jxhzhmfsyjx-: vzj zs wtrfshj mfd vzj inhj vzj rjynjwts fq
wjd Wtiwnlt, anat anat, js zsf yzrgf qqjsf ij xfutx, hzqjgwfx d qflfwytx, d
vzj ij fqqí f itx iífx inot jq wjd ijxij ijsywt ij qf yzrgf, hts ate
itqnjsyj d gfof:

Df rj htrjs, df rj htrjs

utw it ráx ujhfit mfgíf;

d, xjlús jxyt, rzhmf wfeós ynjsj jxyj xjñtw js ijhnw vzj vznjwj ráx xjw ráx
qfgwfitw vzj wjd, xn qj mfs ij htrjw xfgfsinofx.

St uzit qf izvzjxf yjsjw qf wnxf, tdjsit qf xnruqnhnifi ij xz izjñf, sn
ijoó ij firnwfwxj js tíw qfx wfetsjx d wjkwfsjx ij Xfshmt, f vznjs inot:

-Df xfgj jq gzjs Xfshmt vzj qt vzj zsf aje uwtrjyj zs hfgfqqjwt uwthzwf
hzruqnwqt, fzsvzj qj hzjxyj qf anif. Jq izvzj, rn xjñtw d rfwnit, fzsvzj st
jx ij qtx fsifsyjx, st utw jxt ijof ij xjw hfgfqqjwt, d fxí, hzruqnwá qf
ufqfgwf ij qf uwtrjynif ísxzqf, f ujxfw ij qf nsaninf d ij qf rfqnhnf ijq
rzsit. Jxyé Xfshmt ij gzjs ásnrt, vzj hzfsit rjstx qt unjsxj xj ajwá
xjsyfit js qf xnqqf ij xz ísxzqf d js qf ij xz jxyfit, d jruzñfwá xz
ltgnjwst, vzj hts tywt ij gwthfit ij ywjx fqytx qt ijxjhmj. Qt vzj dt qj
jshfwlt jx vzj rnwj hórt ltgnjwsf xzx afxfqqtx, fianwynjsit vzj ytitx xts
qjfqjx d gnjs sfhnitx.

-Jxt ij ltgjwsfwqtx gnjs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- st mfd ufwf vzé jshfwláwrjqt,
utwvzj dt xtd hfwnyfynat ij rít d yjslt htrufxnós ij qtx utgwjx; d f vznjs
hzjhj d frfxf, st qj mzwyjx mtlfef; d ufwf rn xfsynlzfif vzj st rj mfs ij
jhmfw ifit kfqxt; xtd ujwwt anjot, d jsynjsit ytit yzx, yzx, d xé
ijxufgnqfwrj f xzx ynjrutx, d st htsxnjsyt vzj rj fsijs rzxfwfñfx fsyj qtx
totx, utwvzj xé iósij rj fuwnjyf jq efufyt: iíltqt utwvzj qtx gzjstx
yjsiwás htsrnlt rfst d htshfanifi, d qtx rfqtx, sn unj sn jsywfif. D
ufwéhjrj f rí vzj js jxyt ij qtx ltgnjwstx ytit jx htrjsefw, d utiwíf xjw
vzj f vznshj iífx ij ltgjwsfitw rj htrnjxj qfx rfstx ywfx jq tknhnt d
xzunjxj ráx iéq vzj ij qf qfgtw ijq hfrut, js vzj rj mj hwnfit.

-Atx yjsénx wfeós wfeós, Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf-, vzj sfinj sfhj jsxjñfit,
d ij qtx mtrgwjx xj mfhjs qtx tgnxutx, vzj st ij qfx unjiwfx. Ujwt,
atqanjsit f qf uqáynhf vzj utht mf ywfyágfrtx ijq jshfsyt ij qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf, yjslt utw htxf hnjwyf d ráx vzj fajwnlzfif vzj fvzjqqf
nrflnsfhnós vzj Xfshmt yzat ij gzwqfw f xz xjñtw d ifwqj f jsyjsijw vzj qf
qfgwfitwf jwf Izqhnsjf, d vzj xn xz xjñtw st qf htsthíf ijgíf ij xjw utw
jxyfw jshfsyfif, ytif kzj nsajshnós ij fqlzst ij qtx jshfsyfitwjx vzj fq
xjñtw its Vznotyj ujwxnlzjs; utwvzj wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj dt xé ij gzjsf
ufwyj vzj qf anqqfsf vzj int jq gwnsht xtgwj qf utqqnsf jwf d jx Izqhnsjf
ijq Ytgtxt, d vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt, ujsxfsit xjw jq jslfñfitw, jx jq
jslfñfit; d st mfd utsjw ráx izif js jxyf ajwifi vzj js qfx htxfx vzj szshf
anrtx; d xjuf jq xjñtw Xfshmt Ufsef vzj yfrgnés yjsjrtx fhá jshfsyfitwjx
vzj stx vznjwjs gnjs, d stx inhjs qt vzj ufxf utw jq rzsit, uzwf d
xjshnqqfrjsyj, xns jswjitx sn rávznsfx; d hwéfrj Xfshmt vzj qf anqqfsf
gwnshfitwf jwf d jx Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj jxyá jshfsyfif htrt qf rfiwj
vzj qf ufwnó; d hzfsit rjstx stx ujsxjrtx, qf mfgjrtx ij ajw js xz uwtunf
knlzwf, d jsytshjx xfqiwá Xfshmt ijq jslfñt js vzj anaj.

-Gnjs uzjij xjw ytit jxt -inot Xfshmt Ufsef-; d fltwf vznjwt hwjjw qt vzj
rn frt hzjsyf ij qt vzj ant js qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, itsij inhj vzj ant f
qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt js jq rjxrt ywfoj d mágnyt vzj dt inoj vzj qf
mfgíf anxyt hzfsit qf jshfsyé utw xtqt rn lzxyt; d ytit ijgnó ij xjw fq
wjaéx, htrt azjxf rjwhji, xjñtwf ríf, inhj, utwvzj ij rn wzns nsljsnt st xj
uzjij sn ijgj uwjxzrnw vzj kfgwnhfxj js zs nsxyfsyj yfs flzit jrgzxyj, sn
hwjt dt vzj rn frt jx yfs qtht vzj hts yfs kqfhf d rflwf ujwxzfxnós htrt qf
ríf hwjdjxj zsf htxf yfs kzjwf ij ytit yéwrnst. Ujwt, xjñtwf, st utw jxyt
xjwá gnjs vzj azjxywf gtsifi rj yjslf utw rfqéatqt, uzjx st jxyá tgqnlfit
zs utwwt htrt dt f yfqfiwfw qtx ujsxfrnjsytx d rfqnhnfx ij qtx uéxnrtx
jshfsyfitwjx: dt knslí fvzjqqt utw jxhfufwrj ij qfx wnñfx ij rn xjñtw its
Vznotyj, d st hts nsyjshnós ij tkjsijwqj; d xn mf xfqnit fq wjaéx, Intx
jxyá js jq hnjqt, vzj ozelf qtx htwfetsjx.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot qf izvzjxf-; ujwt iílfrj fltwf, Xfshmt, vzé jx jxyt
vzj inhj ij qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, vzj lzxyfwíf xfgjwqt.

Jsytshjx Xfshmt Ufsef qj htsyó uzsyt utw uzsyt qt vzj vzjif inhmt fhjwhf ij
qf yfq fajsyzwf. Tdjsit qt hzfq qf izvzjxf, inot:

-Ijxyj xzhjxt xj uzjij nskjwnw vzj, uzjx jq lwfs its Vznotyj inhj vzj ant
fqqí f qf rjxrf qfgwfitwf vzj Xfshmt ant f qf xfqnif ijq Ytgtxt, xns izif
jx Izqhnsjf, d vzj fsifs utw fvzí qtx jshfsyfitwjx rzd qnxytx d
ijrfxnfifrjsyj hzwntxtx.

-Jxt inlt dt -inot Xfshmt Ufsef-, vzj xn rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt jxyá
jshfsyfif, xz ifñt; vzj dt st rj yjslt ij ytrfw, dt, hts qtx jsjrnltx ij rn
frt, vzj ijgjs ij xjw rzhmtx d rfqtx. Ajwifi xjf vzj qf vzj dt an kzj zsf
qfgwfitwf, d utw qfgwfitwf qf yzaj, d utw yfq qfgwfitwf qf ozelzé; d xn
fvzéqqf jwf Izqhnsjf, st mf ij jxyfw f rn hzjsyf, sn mf ij htwwjw utw rí, t
xtgwj jqqt, rtwjsf. St, xnst ásijsxj f hfif ywnvzjyj htsrnlt f inrj d
inwjyj, "Xfshmt qt inot, Xfshmt qt mnet, Xfshmt ytwsó d Xfshmt atqanó",
htrt xn Xfshmt kzjxj fqlús vznjsvznjwf, d st kzjxj jq rnxrt Xfshmt Ufsef,
jq vzj fsif df js qngwtx utw jxj rzsit fijqfsyj, xjlús rj inot Xfsxós
Hfwwfxht, vzj, utw qt rjstx, jx ujwxtsf gfhmnqqjwfif utw Xfqfrfshf, d qtx
yfqjx st uzjijs rjsynw xn st jx hzfsit xj qjx fsytof t qjx anjsj rzd f
hzjsyt; fxí vzj, st mfd ufwf vzé sfinj xj ytrj htsrnlt, d uzjx vzj yjslt
gzjsf kfrf, d, xjlús tí ijhnw f rn xjñtw, vzj ráx afqj jq gzjs strgwj vzj
qfx rzhmfx wnvzjefx, jsháojsrj jxj ltgnjwst d ajwás rfwfanqqfx; vzj vznjs
mf xnit gzjs jxhzijwt xjwá gzjs ltgjwsfitw.

-Ytit hzfsyt fvzí mf inhmt jq gzjs Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf- xts xjsyjshnfx
hfytsnfsfx, t, utw qt rjstx, xfhfifx ij qfx rjxrfx jsywfñfx ijq rnxrt
Rnhfjq Ajwnst, kqtwjsyngzx thhniny fssnx. Js kns, js kns, mfgqfsit f xz
rtit, ijgfot ij rfqf hfuf xzjqj mfgjw gzjs gjgjitw.

-Js ajwifi, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj js rn anif mj gjgnit ij rfqnhnf;
hts xji gnjs utiwíf xjw, utwvzj st yjslt sfif ij mnuóhwnyf: gjgt hzfsit
yjslt lfsf, d hzfsit st qf yjslt d hzfsit rj qt ifs, utw st ufwjhjw t
rjqnsiwtxt t rfqhwnfit; vzj f zs gwnsinx ij zs frnlt, ¿vzé htwfeós mf ij
mfgjw yfs ij ráwrtq vzj st mflf qf wfeós? Ujwt, fzsvzj qfx hfqet, st qfx
jsxzhnt; hzfsyt ráx, vzj qtx jxhzijwtx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, hfxn ij
twinsfwnt gjgjs flzf, utwvzj xnjruwj fsifs utw kqtwjxyfx, xjqafx d uwfitx,
rtsyfñfx d wnxhtx, xns mfqqfw zsf rnxjwnhtwinf ij anst, xn ifs utw jqqf zs
tot.

-Dt qt hwjt fxí -wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf-. D utw fmtwf, aádfxj Xfshmt f
wjutxfw, vzj ijxuzéx mfgqfwjrtx ráx qfwlt d ifwjrtx twijs htrt afdf uwjxyt
f jshfofwxj, htrt éq inhj, fvzjq ltgnjwst.

Ij szjat qj gjxó qfx rfstx Xfshmt f qf izvzjxf, d qj xzuqnhó qj mnhnjxj
rjwhji ij vzj xj yzanjxj gzjsf hzjsyf hts xz wzhnt, utwvzj jwf qf qzrgwj ij
xzx totx.

-¿Vzé wzhnt jx éxyj? -uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf.

-Rn fxst -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj utw st strgwfwqj hts jxyj strgwj, qj xzjqt
qqfrfw jq wzhnt; d f jxyf xjñtwf izjñf qj wtlzé, hzfsit jsywé js jxyj
hfxynqqt, yzanjxj hzjsyf hts éq, d fetwóxj ij rfsjwf htrt xn qf mzgnjwf
inhmt vzj jwf kjf t anjof, ijgnjsit xjw ráx uwtunt d sfyzwfq ij qfx izjñfx
ujsxfw ozrjsytx vzj fzytwnefw qfx xfqfx. ¡Tm, aáqfrj Intx, d hzás rfq
jxyfgf hts jxyfx xjñtwfx zs mnifqlt ij rn qzlfw!

-Xjwíf fqlús anqqfst -inot itñf Wtiwílzje, qf izjñf-, vzj xn éq kzjwf
mnifqlt d gnjs sfhnit, éq qfx uzxnjwf xtgwj jq hzjwst ij qf qzsf.

-Fltwf gnjs -inot qf izvzjxf-, st mfdf ráx: hfqqj itñf Wtiwílzje d
xtxnélzjxj jq xjñtw Ufsef, d vzéijxj f rn hfwlt jq wjlfqt ijq wzhnt; vzj,
utw xjw fqmfof ij Xfshmt, qj utsiwé dt xtgwj qfx snñfx ij rnx totx.

-Js qf hfgfqqjwnef gfxyf vzj jxyé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj xtgwj qfx snñfx
ij qtx totx ij azjxywf lwfsijef sn éq sn dt xtrtx inlstx ij jxyfw xóqt zs
rtrjsyt, d fxí qt htsxnsynwíf dt htrt ifwrj ij uzñfqfifx; vzj, fzsvzj inhj
rn xjñtw vzj js qfx htwyjxífx fsyjx xj mf ij ujwijw utw hfwyf ij ráx vzj ij
rjstx, js qfx ozrjsynqjx d fxí snñfx xj mf ij nw hts jq htruáx js qf rfst d
hts rjinit yéwrnst.

-Qqéajqj -inot qf izvzjxf- Xfshmt fq ltgnjwst, d fqqá qj utiwá wjlfqfw htrt
vznxnjwj, d fzs ozgnqfwqj ijq ywfgfot.

-St unjsxj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtwf izvzjxf, vzj mf inhmt rzhmt -inot Xfshmt-;
vzj dt mj anxyt nw ráx ij itx fxstx f qtx ltgnjwstx, d vzj qqjafxj dt jq
rít st xjwíf htxf szjaf.

Qfx wfetsjx ij Xfshmt wjstafwts js qf izvzjxf qf wnxf d jq htsyjsyt; d,
jsanásitqj f wjutxfw, jqqf kzj f ifw hzjsyf fq izvzj ij qt vzj hts éq mfgíf
ufxfit, d jsywj qtx itx injwts ywfef d twijs ij mfhjw zsf gzwqf f its
Vznotyj vzj kzjxj kfrtxf d ansnjxj gnjs hts jq jxynqt hfgfqqjwjxht, js jq
hzfq qj mnhnjwts rzhmfx, yfs uwtunfx d inxhwjyfx, vzj xts qfx rjotwjx
fajsyzwfx vzj js jxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf xj htsynjsjs.





Hfuíyzqt CCCNA. Vzj hzjsyf ij qf stynhnf vzj xj yzat ij hórt xj mfgíf ij
ijxjshfsyfw qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj jx zsf ij qfx fajsyzwfx ráx
kfrtxfx ijxyj qngwt


Lwfsij jwf jq lzxyt vzj wjhjgífs jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf ij qf htsajwxfhnós
ij its Vznotyj d ij qf ij Xfshmt Ufsef; d, htsknwrásitxj js qf nsyjshnós
vzj yjsífs ij mfhjwqjx fqlzsfx gzwqfx vzj qqjafxjs anxqzrgwjx d fufwnjshnfx
ij fajsyzwfx, ytrfwts rtynat ij qf vzj its Vznotyj df qjx mfgíf htsyfit ij
qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, ufwf mfhjwqj zsf vzj kzjxj kfrtxf (ujwt ij qt vzj
ráx qf izvzjxf xj firnwfgf jwf vzj qf xnruqnhnifi ij Xfshmt kzjxj yfsyf vzj
mzgnjxj ajsnit f hwjjw xjw ajwifi nskfqngqj vzj Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt
jxyzanjxj jshfsyfif, mfgnjsit xnit éq rjxrt jq jshfsyfitw d jq jrgzxyjwt ij
fvzjq sjlthnt); d fxí, mfgnjsit ifit twijs f xzx hwnfitx ij ytit qt vzj
mfgífs ij mfhjw, ij fqqí f xjnx iífx qj qqjafwts f hfef ij rtsyjwíf, hts
yfsyt fufwfyt ij rtsyjwtx d hfefitwjx htrt uzinjwf qqjafw zs wjd htwtsfit.
Inéwtsqj f its Vznotyj zs ajxynit ij rtsyj d f Xfshmt tywt ajwij, ij
knsíxnrt ufñt; ujwt its Vznotyj st xj qj vznxt utsjw, inhnjsit vzj tywt iíf
mfgíf ij atqajw fq izwt jojwhnhnt ij qfx fwrfx d vzj st utiíf qqjafw
htsxnlt lzfwifwwtufx sn wjutxyjwífx. Xfshmt xí ytró jq vzj qj injwts, hts
nsyjshnós ij ajsijwqj js qf uwnrjwf thfxnós vzj uzinjxj.

Qqjlfit, uzjx, jq jxujwfit iíf, fwróxj its Vznotyj, anxynóxj Xfshmt, d,
jshnrf ij xz wzhnt, vzj st qj vznxt ijofw fzsvzj qj ifgfs zs hfgfqqt, xj
rjynó jsywj qf ywtuf ij qtx rtsyjwtx. Qf izvzjxf xfqnó gnefwwfrjsyj
fijwjefif, d its Vznotyj, ij uzwt htwyéx d htrjinit, ytró qf wnjsif ij xz
ufqfkwés, fzsvzj jq izvzj st vzjwíf htsxjsynwqt, d, knsfqrjsyj, qqjlfwts f
zs gtxvzj vzj jsywj itx fqyíxnrfx rtsyfñfx jxyfgf, itsij, ytrfitx qtx
uzjxytx, ufwfsefx d ajwjifx, d wjufwynif qf ljsyj utw inkjwjsyjx uzjxytx,
xj htrjseó qf hfef hts lwfsij jxywzjsit, lwnyf d athjwíf, ij rfsjwf vzj
zstx f tywtx st utiífs tíwxj, fxí utw jq qfiwnit ij qtx ujwwtx htrt utw jq
xts ij qfx gthnsfx.

Fujóxj qf izvzjxf, d, hts zs flzit ajsfgqt js qfx rfstx, xj uzxt js zs
uzjxyt utw itsij jqqf xfgíf vzj xtqífs ajsnw fqlzstx ofgfqíjx. Fujóxj
fxnrnxrt jq izvzj d its Vznotyj, d uzxnéwtsxj f xzx qfitx; Xfshmt xj uzxt
ijywáx ij ytitx, xns fujfwxj ijq wzhnt, f vznjs st txfwf ijxfrufwfw, utwvzj
st qj xzhjinjxj fqlús ijxrás. D, fujsfx mfgífs xjsyfit jq unj d uzjxyt js
fqf hts tywtx rzhmtx hwnfitx xzdtx, hzfsit, fhtxfit ij qtx ujwwtx d xjlznit
ij qtx hfefitwjx, anjwts vzj mfhnf jqqtx ajsíf zs ijxrjxzwfit ofgfqí,
hwzonjsit injsyjx d htqrnqqtx d fwwtofsit jxuzrf utw qf gthf; d js
anésitqj, jrgwfefsit xz jxhzit d uzjxyf rfst f xz jxufif, xj fijqfsyó f
wjhjgnwqj its Vznotyj. Qt rjxrt mnet jq izvzj hts xz ajsfgqt; ujwt f ytitx
xj fijqfsyfwf qf izvzjxf, xn jq izvzj st xj qt jxytwgfwf. Xóqt Xfshmt, js
anjsit fq afqnjsyj fsnrfq, ijxfrufwó fq wzhnt d int f htwwjw hzfsyt uzit,
d, uwthzwfsit xzgnwxj xtgwj zsf fqyf jshnsf, st kzj utxngqj; fsyjx, jxyfsit
df f qf rnyfi iéq, fxnit ij zsf wfrf, uzlsfsit xzgnw f qf hnrf, kzj yfs
htwyt ij ajsyzwf d yfs ijxlwfhnfit, vzj xj ijxlfoó qf wfrf, d, fq ajsnw fq
xzjqt, xj vzjió js jq fnwj, fxnit ij zs lfshmt ij qf jshnsf, xns utijw
qqjlfw fq xzjqt. D, anésitxj fxí, d vzj jq xfdt ajwij xj qj wfxlfgf, d
ufwjhnésitqj vzj xn fvzjq knjwt fsnrfq fqqí fqqjlfgf qj utiíf fqhfsefw,
htrjseó f ifw yfsytx lwnytx d f ujinw xthtwwt hts yfsyt fmísht, vzj ytitx
qtx vzj qj tífs d st qj ajífs hwjdjwts vzj jxyfgf jsywj qtx injsyjx ij
fqlzsf knjwf.

Knsfqrjsyj, jq htqrnqqzit ofgfqí vzjió fywfajxfit ij qfx hzhmnqqfx ij
rzhmtx ajsfgqtx vzj xj qj uzxnjwts ijqfsyj; d, atqanjsit qf hfgjef its
Vznotyj f qtx lwnytx ij Xfshmt, vzj df utw jqqtx qj mfgíf htsthnit, antqj
ujsinjsyj ij qf jshnsf d qf hfgjef fgfot, d fq wzhnt ozsyt f éq, vzj st qj
ijxfrufwó js xz hfqfrnifi; d inhj Hnij Mfrjyj vzj uthfx ajhjx ant f Xfshmt
Ufsef xns ajw fq wzhnt, sn fq wzhnt xns ajw f Xfshmt: yfq jwf qf frnxyfi d
gzjsf kj vzj jsywj qtx itx xj lzfwifgfs.

Qqjló its Vznotyj d ijxhtqló f Xfshmt; jq hzfq, anésitxj qngwj d js jq
xzjqt, rnwó qt ijxlfwwfit ijq xfdt ij rtsyj, d ujxóqj js jq fqrf; vzj ujsxó
vzj yjsíf js jq ajxynit zs rfdtwfelt. Js jxyt, fywfajxfwts fq ofgfqí
utijwtxt xtgwj zsf fhérnqf, d, hzgwnésitqj hts rfyfx ij wtrjwt d hts wfrfx
ij rnwyt, qj qqjafwts, htrt js xjñfq ij anytwntxtx ijxutotx, f zsfx lwfsijx
ynjsifx ij hfrufñf vzj js qf rnyfi ijq gtxvzj jxyfgfs uzjxyfx, itsij
mfqqfwts qfx rjxfx js twijs d qf htrnif fijwjefif, yfs xzruyztxf d lwfsij,
vzj xj jhmfgf gnjs ij ajw js jqqf qf lwfsijef d rflsnknhjshnf ij vznjs qf
ifgf. Xfshmt, rtxywfsit qfx qqflfx f qf izvzjxf ij xz wtyt ajxynit, inot:

-Xn jxyf hfef kzjwf ij qnjgwjx t ij ufofwnqqtx, xjlzwt jxyzanjwf rn xfdt ij
ajwxj js jxyj jxywjrt. Dt st xé vzé lzxyt xj wjhngj ij jxujwfw f zs fsnrfq
vzj, xn tx fqhfsef hts zs htqrnqqt, tx uzjij vznyfw qf anif; dt rj fhzjwit
mfgjw tíit hfsyfw zs wtrfshj fsynlzt vzj inhj:

   Ij qtx txtx xjfx htrnit,
   htrt Kfanqf jq strgwfit.

-Éxj kzj zs wjd ltit -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, djsit f hfef ij rtsyjwíf, qj
htrnó zs txt.

-Jxt jx qt vzj dt inlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: vzj st vzjwwíf dt vzj qtx
uwíshnujx d qtx wjdjx xj uzxnjxjs js xjrjofsyjx ujqnlwtx, f ywzjht ij zs
lzxyt vzj ufwjhj vzj st qj mfgíf ij xjw, uzjx htsxnxyj js rfyfw f zs fsnrfq
vzj st mf htrjynit ijqnyt fqlzst.

-Fsyjx tx jslfñánx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó jq izvzj-, utwvzj jq jojwhnhnt ij qf
hfef ij rtsyj jx jq ráx htsajsnjsyj d sjhjxfwnt ufwf qtx wjdjx d uwíshnujx
vzj tywt fqlzst. Qf hfef jx zsf nrfljs ij qf lzjwwf: mfd js jqqf
jxywfyfljrfx, fxyzhnfx, nsxninfx ufwf ajshjw f xz xfqat fq jsjrnlt;
ufiéhjsxj js jqqf kwítx lwfsiíxnrtx d hfqtwjx nsytqjwfgqjx; rjstxhágfxj jq
thnt d jq xzjñt, htwwtgówfsxj qfx kzjwefx, flnqíyfsxj qtx rnjrgwtx ijq vzj
qf zxf, d, js wjxtqzhnós, jx jojwhnhnt vzj xj uzjij mfhjw xns ujwoznhnt ij
sfinj d hts lzxyt ij rzhmtx; d qt rjotw vzj éq ynjsj jx vzj st jx ufwf
ytitx, htrt qt jx jq ij qtx tywtx lésjwtx ij hfef, jchjuyt jq ij qf
atqfyjwíf, vzj yfrgnés jx xóqt ufwf wjdjx d lwfsijx xjñtwjx. Fxí vzj, ¡tm
Xfshmt!, rzifi ij tunsnós, d, hzfsit xjánx ltgjwsfitw, thzuftx js qf hfef d
ajwénx htrt tx afqj zs ufs utw hnjsyt.

-Jxt st -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: jq gzjs ltgjwsfitw, qf unjwsf vzjgwfif d js
hfxf. ¡Gzjst xjwíf vzj ansnjxjs qtx sjlthnfsyjx f gzxhfwqj kfynlfitx d éq
jxyzanjxj js jq rtsyj mtqlásitxj! ¡Fxí jsmtwfrfqf fsifwíf jq ltgnjwst! Ríf
kj, xjñtw, qf hfef d qtx ufxfynjrutx ráx mfs ij xjw ufwf qtx mtqlfefsjx vzj
ufwf qtx ltgjwsfitwjx. Js qt vzj dt unjsxt jsywjyjsjwrj jx js ozlfw fq
ywnzskt jsanifit qfx ufxhzfx, d f qtx gtqtx qtx itrnsltx d knjxyfx; vzj
jxfx hfefx sn hfetx st inhjs hts rn htsinhnós sn mfhjs hts rn htshnjshnf.

-Uqjlf f Intx, Xfshmt, vzj fxí xjf, utwvzj ijq inhmt fq mjhmt mfd lwfs
ywjhmt.

-Mfdf qt vzj mzgnjwj -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj fq gzjs uflfitw st qj izjqjs
uwjsifx, d ráx afqj fq vzj Intx fdzif vzj fq vzj rzhmt rfiwzlf, d ywnufx
qqjafs unjx, vzj st unjx f ywnufx; vznjwt ijhnw vzj xn Intx rj fdzif, d dt
mflt qt vzj ijgt hts gzjsf nsyjshnós, xns izif vzj ltgjwsfwé rjotw vzj zs
ljwnkfqyj. ¡St, xnst uóslfsrj jq ijit js qf gthf d ajwás xn fuwnjyt t st!

-¡Rfqinyt xjfx ij Intx d ij ytitx xzx xfsytx, Xfshmt rfqinyt -inot its
Vznotyj-, d hzásit xjwá jq iíf, htrt tywfx rzhmfx ajhjx mj inhmt, itsij dt
yj ajf mfgqfw xns wjkwfsjx zsf wfeós htwwnjsyj d htshjwyfif! Azjxywfx
lwfsijefx ijojs f jxyj ytsyt, xjñtwjx rítx, vzj qjx rtqjwá qfx fqrfx, st
xóqt uzjxyfx jsywj itx, xnst jsywj itx rnq wjkwfsjx, ywfíitx yfs f xfeós d
yfs f ynjrut hzfsyt qj ié Intx f éq qf xfqzi, t f rí xn qtx vzjwwíf
jxhzhmfw.

-Qtx wjkwfsjx ij Xfshmt Ufsef -inot qf izvzjxf-, uzjxyt vzj xts ráx vzj qtx
ijq Htrjsifitw Lwnjlt, st utw jxt xts js rjstx ij jxynrfw, utw qf gwjajifi
ij qfx xjsyjshnfx. Ij rí xé ijhnw vzj rj ifs ráx lzxyt vzj tywtx, fzsvzj
xjfs rjotw ywfíitx d hts ráx xfeós fhtrtifitx.

Hts jxytx d tywtx jsywjyjsnitx wfetsfrnjsytx, xfqnjwts ij qf ynjsif fq
gtxvzj, d js wjvzjwnw fqlzsfx ufwfsefx, d uwjxyt, xj qjx ufxó jq iíf d xj
qjx anst qf sthmj, d st yfs hqfwf sn yfs xjxlf htrt qf xfeós ijq ynjrut
ujiíf, vzj jwf js qf rnyfi ijq ajwfst; ujwt zs hnjwyt hqfwtjxhzwt vzj ywzot
htsxnlt fdzió rzhmt f qf nsyjshnós ij qtx izvzjx; d, fxí htrt htrjseó f
fsthmjhjw, zs utht ráx fijqfsyj ijq hwjuúxhzqt, f ijxmtwf ufwjhnó vzj ytit
jq gtxvzj utw ytifx hzfywt ufwyjx xj fwiíf, d qzjlt xj tdjwts utw fvzí d
utw fqqí, d utw fhá d utw fhzqqá, nsknsnyfx htwsjyfx d tywtx nsxywzrjsytx
ij lzjwwf, htrt ij rzhmfx ywtufx ij hfgfqqjwíf vzj utw jq gtxvzj ufxfgf. Qf
qze ijq kzjlt, jq xts ij qtx géqnhtx nsxywzrjsytx, hfxn hjlfwts d fywtsfwts
qtx totx d qtx tíitx ij qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx, d fzs ij ytitx qtx vzj js jq
gtxvzj jxyfgfs. Qzjlt xj tdjwts nsknsnytx qjqnqíjx, fq zxt ij rtwtx hzfsit
jsywfs js qfx gfyfqqfx, xtsfwts ywtrujyfx d hqfwnsjx, wjyzrgfwts yfrgtwjx,
wjxtsfwts uíkfwtx, hfxn ytitx f zs ynjrut, yfs htsynst d yfs fuwnjxf, vzj
st yzanjwf xjsynit jq vzj st vzjifwf xns éq fq xts htskzxt ij yfsytx
nsywzrjsytx. Ufxróxj jq izvzj, xzxujsinóxj qf izvzjxf, firnwóxj its
Vznotyj, yjrgqó Xfshmt Ufsef, d, knsfqrjsyj, fzs mfxyf qtx rjxrtx xfgnitwjx
ij qf hfzxf xj jxufsyfwts. Hts jq yjrtw qjx htlnó jq xnqjshnt, d zs
utxynqqós vzj js ywfoj ij ijrtsnt qjx ufxó utw ijqfsyj, ythfsit js ate ij
htwsjyf zs mzjht d ijxrjxzwfit hzjwst, vzj zs wtsht d jxufsytxt xts
ijxujiíf.

-¡Mtqf, mjwrfst htwwjt! -inot jq izvzj-, ¿vznés xtnx, fiósij afnx, d vzé
ljsyj ij lzjwwf jx qf vzj utw jxyj gtxvzj ufwjhj vzj fywfanjxf?

F qt vzj wjxutsinó jq htwwjt hts ate mtwwíxtsf d ijxjskfifif:

-Dt xtd jq Infgqt; atd f gzxhfw f its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf; qf ljsyj vzj
utw fvzí anjsj xts xjnx ywtufx ij jshfsyfitwjx, vzj xtgwj zs hfwwt
ywnzskfsyj ywfjs f qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt. Jshfsyfif anjsj hts jq
lfqqfwit kwfshéx Rtsyjxnstx, f ifw twijs f its Vznotyj ij hórt mf ij xjw
ijxjshfsyfif qf yfq xjñtwf.

-Xn atx kzéwfijx infgqt, htrt ijhíx d htrt azjxywf knlzwf rzjxywf, df
mzgnéwfijx htsthnit fq yfq hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, uzjx qj
yjsénx ijqfsyj.

-Js Intx d js rn htshnjshnf -wjxutsinó jq Infgqt- vzj st rnwfgf js jqqt,
utwvzj ywfnlt js yfsyfx htxfx inajwynitx qtx ujsxfrnjsytx, vzj ij qf
uwnshnufq f vzj ajsíf xj rj tqanifgf.

-Xns izif -inot Xfshmt- vzj jxyj ijrtsnt ijgj ij xjw mtrgwj ij gnjs d gzjs
hwnxynfst, utwvzj, f st xjwqt, st ozwfwf js Intx d js rn htshnjshnf. Fmtwf
dt yjslt ufwf rí vzj fzs js jq rjxrt nsknjwst ijgj ij mfgjw gzjsf ljsyj.

Qzjlt jq Ijrtsnt, xns fujfwxj, jshfrnsfsit qf anxyf f its Vznotyj, inot:

-F yn, jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Qjtsjx (vzj jsywj qfx lfwwfx ijqqtx yj ajf dt),
rj jsaíf jq ijxlwfhnfit ujwt afqnjsyj hfgfqqjwt Rtsyjxnstx, rfsiásitrj vzj
ij xz ufwyj yj inlf vzj qj jxujwjx js jq rnxrt qzlfw vzj yj ytufwj, f hfzxf
vzj ywfj htsxnlt f qf vzj qqfrfs Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, hts twijs ij ifwyj qf
vzj jx rjsjxyjw ufwf ijxjshfsyfwqf. D, utw st xjw ufwf ráx rn ajsnif, st mf
ij xjw ráx rn jxyfif: qtx ijrtsntx htrt dt vzjijs htsynlt, d qtx ásljqjx
gzjstx hts jxytx xjñtwjx.

D, js inhnjsit jxyt, ythó jq ijxfktwfit hzjwst, d atqanó qfx jxufqifx d
kzjxj, xns jxujwfw wjxuzjxyf ij snslzst.

Wjstaóxj qf firnwfhnós js ytitx, jxujhnfqrjsyj js Xfshmt d its Vznotyj: js
Xfshmt, js ajw vzj, f ijxujhmt ij qf ajwifi, vzjwífs vzj jxyzanjxj
jshfsyfif Izqhnsjf; js its Vznotyj, utw st utijw fxjlzwfwxj xn jwf ajwifi t
st qt vzj qj mfgíf ufxfit js qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx. D, jxyfsit jqjafit js
jxytx ujsxfrnjsytx, jq izvzj qj inot:

-¿Unjsxf azjxywf rjwhji jxujwfw, xjñtw its Vznotyj?

-Uzjx ¿st? -wjxutsinó éq-. Fvzí jxujwfwé nsywéunit d kzjwyj, xn rj ansnjxj
f jrgjxynw ytit jq nsknjwst.

-Uzjx xn dt ajt tywt infgqt d tnlt tywt hzjwst htrt jq ufxfit, fxí jxujwfwé
dt fvzí htrt js Kqfsijx -inot Xfshmt.

Js jxyt, xj hjwwó ráx qf sthmj, d htrjsefwts f inxhzwwnw rzhmfx qzhjx utw
jq gtxvzj, gnjs fxí htrt inxhzwwjs utw jq hnjqt qfx jcmfqfhntsjx xjhfx ij
qf ynjwwf, vzj ufwjhjs f szjxywf anxyf jxywjqqfx vzj htwwjs. Tdóxj fxnrnxrt
zs jxufsytxt wznit, fq rtit ij fvzjq vzj xj hfzxf ij qfx wzjifx rfhnefx vzj
xzjqjs ywfjw qtx hfwwtx ij gzjdjx, ij hzdt hmnwwít áxujwt d htsynszfit xj
inhj vzj mzdjs qtx qtgtx d qtx txtx, xn qtx mfd utw itsij ufxfs. Fñfinóxj f
ytif jxyf yjrujxyfi tywf vzj qfx fzrjsyó ytifx, vzj kzj vzj ufwjhíf
ajwifijwfrjsyj vzj f qfx hzfywt ufwyjx ijq gtxvzj xj jxyfgfs ifsit f zs
rnxrt ynjrut hzfywt wjshzjsywtx t gfyfqqfx, utwvzj fqqí xtsfgf jq izwt
jxywzjsit ij jxufsytxf fwynqqjwíf, fhzqqá xj inxufwfgfs nsknsnyfx
jxhtujyfx, hjwhf hfxn xtsfgfs qfx athjx ij qtx htrgfynjsyjx, qjotx xj
wjnyjwfgfs qtx qnqnqíjx flfwjstx.

Knsfqrjsyj, qfx htwsjyfx, qtx hzjwstx, qfx gthnsfx, qtx hqfwnsjx, qfx
ywtrujyfx, qtx yfrgtwjx, qf fwynqqjwíf, qtx fwhfgzhjx, d, xtgwj ytit, jq
yjrjwtxt wznit ij qtx hfwwtx, ktwrfgfs ytitx ozsytx zs xts yfs htskzxt d
yfs mtwwjsit, vzj kzj rjsjxyjw vzj its Vznotyj xj afqnjxj ij ytit xz
htwfeós ufwf xzkwnwqj; ujwt jq ij Xfshmt anst f ynjwwf, d int hts éq
ijxrfdfit js qfx kfqifx ij qf izvzjxf, qf hzfq qj wjhngnó js jqqfx, d f
lwfs uwnjxf rfsió vzj qj jhmfxjs flzf js jq wtxywt. Míetxj fxí, d éq atqanó
js xz fhzjwit, f ynjrut vzj df zs hfwwt ij qfx wjhmnsfsyjx wzjifx qqjlfgf f
fvzjq uzjxyt.

Ynwágfsqj hzfywt ujwjetxtx gzjdjx, ytitx hzgnjwytx ij ufwfrjsytx sjlwtx; js
hfif hzjwst ywfífs fyfif d jshjsinif zsf lwfsij mfhmf ij hjwf, d jshnrf ijq
hfwwt ajsíf mjhmt zs fxnjsyt fqyt, xtgwj jq hzfq ajsíf xjsyfit zs ajsjwfgqj
anjot, hts zsf gfwgf ráx gqfshf vzj qf rjxrf snjaj, d yfs qzjslf vzj qj
ufxfgf ij qf hnsyzwf; xz ajxynizwf jwf zsf wtuf qfwlf ij sjlwt gthfhí, vzj,
utw ajsnw jq hfwwt qqjst ij nsknsnyfx qzhjx, xj utiíf gnjs inanxfw d
inxhjwsnw ytit qt vzj js éq ajsíf. Lznágfsqj itx kjtx ijrtsntx ajxynitx ijq
rjxrt gthfhí, hts yfs kjtx wtxywtx, vzj Xfshmt, mfgnésitqtx anxyt zsf aje,
hjwwó qtx totx utw st ajwqtx tywf. Qqjlfsit, uzjx, jq hfwwt f nlzfqfw fq
uzjxyt, xj qjafsyó ij xz fqyt fxnjsyt jq anjot ajsjwfgqj, d, uzjxyt js unj,
ifsit zsf lwfs ate, inot:

-Dt xtd jq xfgnt Qnwlfsijt.

D ufxó jq hfwwt fijqfsyj, xns mfgqfw ráx ufqfgwf. Ywfx éxyj ufxó tywt hfwwt
ij qf rnxrf rfsjwf, hts tywt anjot jsywtsnefit; jq hzfq, mfhnjsit vzj jq
hfwwt xj ijyzanjxj, hts ate st rjstx lwfaj vzj jq tywt, inot:

-Dt xtd jq xfgnt Fqvznkj, jq lwfsij frnlt ij Zwlfsif qf Ijxhtsthnif.

D ufxó fijqfsyj.

Qzjlt, utw jq rnxrt htsynsjsyj, qqjló tywt hfwwt; ujwt jq vzj ajsíf xjsyfit
js jq ywtst st jwf anjot htrt qtx ijráx, xnst mtrgwós wtgzxyt d ij rfqf
hfyfizwf, jq hzfq, fq qqjlfw, qjafsyásitxj js unj, htrt qtx tywtx, inot hts
ate ráx wtshf d ráx jsinfgqfif:

-Dt xtd Fwhfqázx jq jshfsyfitw, jsjrnlt rtwyfq ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf d ij ytif
xz ufwjsyjqf.

D ufxó fijqfsyj. Utht ijxanfitx ij fqqí mnhnjwts fqyt jxytx ywjx hfwwtx, d
hjxó jq jskfitxt wznit ij xzx wzjifx, d qzjlt xj tdó tywt, st wznit, xnst
zs xts ij zsf xzfaj d htshjwyfif rúxnhf ktwrfit, hts vzj Xfshmt xj fqjlwó,
d qt yzat f gzjsf xjñfq; d fxí, inot f qf izvzjxf, ij vznjs zs uzsyt sn zs
ufxt xj fufwyfgf:

-Xjñtwf, itsij mfd rúxnhf st uzjij mfgjw htxf rfqf.

-Yfrutht itsij mfd qzhjx d hqfwnifi -wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf.

F qt vzj wjuqnhó Xfshmt:

-Qze if jq kzjlt d hqfwnifi qfx mtlzjwfx, htrt qt ajrtx js qfx vzj stx
hjwhfs, d gnjs utiwíf xjw vzj stx fgwfxfxjs, ujwt qf rúxnhf xnjruwj jx
nsinhnt ij wjlthnotx d ij knjxyfx.

-Jqqt inwá -inot its Vznotyj, vzj ytit qt jxhzhmfgf.

D inot gnjs, htrt xj rzjxywf js jq hfuíyzqt xnlznjsyj.





Hfuíyzqt CCCA. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf stynhnf vzj yzat its Vznotyj ijq
ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf, hts tywtx firnwfgqjx xzhjxtx


Fq htruáx ij qf flwfifgqj rúxnhf anjwts vzj mfhnf jqqtx ajsíf zs hfwwt ij
qtx vzj qqfrfs ywnzskfqjx ynwfit ij xjnx rzqfx ufwifx, jshzgjwyfifx,
jrujwt, ij qnjset gqfsht, d xtgwj hfif zsf ajsíf zs inhnuqnsfsyj ij qze,
fxnrjxrt ajxynit ij gqfsht, hts zsf mfhmf ij hjwf lwfsij jshjsinif js qf
rfst. Jwf jq hfwwt itx ajhjx, d fzs ywjx, rfdtw vzj qtx ufxfitx, d qtx
qfitx, d jshnrf iéq, thzufgfs ithj tywtx inhnuqnsfsyjx fqgtx htrt qf snjaj,
ytitx hts xzx mfhmfx jshjsinifx, anxyf vzj firnwfgf d jxufsyfgf ozsyfrjsyj;
d js zs qjafsyfit ywtst ajsíf xjsyfif zsf snskf, ajxynif ij rnq ajqtx ij
yjqf ij uqfyf, gwnqqfsit utw ytitx jqqtx nsknsnyfx mtofx ij fwljsyjwíf ij
twt, vzj qf mfhífs, xn st wnhf, f qt rjstx anxytxfrjsyj ajxynif. Ywfíf jq
wtxywt hzgnjwyt hts zs ywfsxufwjsyj d ijqnhfit hjsifq, ij rtit vzj, xns
nrujinwqt xzx qnetx, utw jsywj jqqtx xj ijxhzgwíf zs mjwrtxíxnrt wtxywt ij
itshjqqf, d qfx rzhmfx qzhjx ifgfs qzlfw ufwf inxynslznw qf gjqqjef d qtx
fñtx, vzj, fq ufwjhjw, st qqjlfgfs f ajnsyj sn gfofgfs ij inje d xnjyj.

Ozsyt f jqqf ajsíf zsf knlzwf ajxynif ij zsf wtuf ij qfx vzj qqfrfs
wteflfsyjx, mfxyf qtx unjx, hzgnjwyf qf hfgjef hts zs ajqt sjlwt; ujwt, fq
uzsyt vzj qqjló jq hfwwt f jxyfw kwjsyj f kwjsyj ij qtx izvzjx d ij its
Vznotyj, hjxó qf rúxnhf ij qfx hmnwnrífx, d qzjlt qf ij qfx fwufx d qfúijx
vzj js jq hfwwt xtsfgfs; d, qjafsyásitxj js unj qf knlzwf ij qf wtuf, qf
fufwyó f jsywfrgtx qfitx, d, vznyásitxj jq ajqt ijq wtxywt, ijxhzgwnó
ufyjsyjrjsyj xjw qf rjxrf knlzwf ij qf rzjwyj, ijxhfwsfif d kjf, ij vzj its
Vznotyj wjhngnó ujxfizrgwj d Xfshmt rnjit, d qtx izvzjx mnhnjwts fqlús
xjsynrnjsyt yjrjwtxt. Fqefif d uzjxyf js unj jxyf rzjwyj anaf, hts ate fqlt
itwrnif d hts qjslzf st rzd ijxunjwyf, htrjseó f ijhnw ijxyf rfsjwf:

   -Dt xtd Rjwqís, fvzjq vzj qfx mnxytwnfx
   inhjs vzj yzaj utw rn ufiwj fq infgqt
   (rjsynwf fzytwnefif ij qtx ynjrutx),
   uwíshnuj ij qf Rálnhf d rtsfwhf
   d fwhmnat ij qf hnjshnf etwtáxywnhf,
   érzqt f qfx jifijx d f qtx xnlqtx
   vzj xtqfufw uwjyjsijs qfx mfefñfx
   ij qtx fsifsyjx gwfatx hfgfqqjwtx
   f vznjs dt yzaj d yjslt lwfs hfwnñt.
   D, uzjxyt vzj jx ij qtx jshfsyfitwjx,
   ij qtx rfltx t rálnhtx htsynst
   izwf qf htsinhnós, áxujwf d kzjwyj,
   qf ríf jx ynjwsf, gqfsif d frtwtxf,
   d frnlf ij mfhjw gnjs f ytifx ljsyjx.
   Js qfx hfajwsfx qógwjlfx ij Inyj,
   itsij jxyfgf rn fqrf jsywjyjsnif
   js ktwrfw hnjwytx wtrgtx d hfwáyjwjx,
   qqjló qf ate itqnjsyj ij qf gjqqf
   d xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.
   Xzuj xz jshfsyfrjsyt d xz ijxlwfhnf,
   d xz ywfxktwrfhnós ij ljsynq ifrf
   js wúxynhf fqijfsf; htsitqírj,
   d, jshjwwfsit rn jxuíwnyz js jq mzjht
   ijxyf jxufsytxf d knjwf stytríf,
   ijxuzéx ij mfgjw wjazjqyt hnjs rnq qngwtx
   ijxyf rn hnjshnf jsijrtsnfif d ytwuj,
   ajslt f ifw jq wjrjint vzj htsanjsj
   f yfrfñt itqtw, f rfq yfrfñt.
   ¡Tm yú, lqtwnf d mtstw ij hzfsytx anxyjs
   qfx yúsnhfx ij fhjwt d ij infrfsyj,
   qze d kfwtq, xjsijwt, stwyj d lzíf
   ij fvzjqqtx vzj, ijofsit jq ytwuj xzjñt
   d qfx thntxfx uqzrfx, xj fhtrtifs
   f zxfw jq jojwhnhnt nsytqjwfgqj
   ij qfx xfslwnjsyfx d ujxfifx fwrfx!
   F yn inlt ¡tm afwós, htrt xj ijgj
   utw ofráx fqfgfit!, f yn, afqnjsyj
   ozsyfrjsyj d inxhwjyt its Vznotyj,
   ij qf Rfshmf jxuqjsitw, ij Jxufñf jxywjqqf,
   vzj ufwf wjhtgwfw xz jxyfit uwnrt
   qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt,
   jx rjsjxyjw vzj Xfshmt, yz jxhzijwt,
   xj ié ywjx rnq fetyjx d ywjhnjsytx
   js frgfx xzx afqnjsyjx utxfijwfx,
   fq fnwj ijxhzgnjwyfx, d ij rtit
   vzj qj jxhzjefs, qj frfwlzjs d qj jskfijs.
   D js jxyt xj wjxzjqajs ytitx hzfsytx
   ij xz ijxlwfhnf mfs xnit qtx fzytwjx,
   d f jxyt jx rn ajsnif, rnx xjñtwjx.

-¡Atyt f yfq! -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt-. St inlt dt ywjx rnq fetyjx, ujwt
fxí rj ifwé dt ywjx htrt ywjx uzñfqfifx. ¡Aáqfyj jq infgqt utw rtit ij
ijxjshfsyfw! ¡Dt st xé vzé ynjsjs vzj ajw rnx utxfx hts qtx jshfsytx! ¡Ufw
Intx vzj xn jq xjñtw Rjwqís st mf mfqqfit tywf rfsjwf htrt ijxjshfsyfw f qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, jshfsyfif xj utiwá nw f qf xjuzqyzwf!

-Ytrfwtx mj dt -inot its Vznotyj-, its anqqfst, mfwyt ij fotx, d frfwwfwtx
mj f zs áwgtq, ijxszit htrt azjxywf rfiwj tx ufwnó; d st inlt dt ywjx rnq d
ywjhnjsytx, xnst xjnx rnq d xjnxhnjsytx fetyjx tx ifwé, yfs gnjs ujlfitx
vzj st xj tx hfnlfs f ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx ynwtsjx. D st rj wjuqnvzénx
ufqfgwf, vzj tx fwwfshfwé jq fqrf.

Tdjsit qt hzfq Rjwqís, inot:

-St mf ij xjw fxí, utwvzj qtx fetyjx vzj mf ij wjhjgnw jq gzjs Xfshmt mfs
ij xjw utw xz atqzsyfi, d st utw kzjwef, d js jq ynjrut vzj éq vznxnjwj;
vzj st xj qj utsj yéwrnst xjñfqfit; ujwt ujwríyjxjqj vzj xn éq vznxnjwj
wjijrnw xz ajofhnós utw qf rnyfi ij jxyj afuzqfrnjsyt, uzjij ijofw vzj xj
qtx ié fojsf rfst, fzsvzj xjf fqlt ujxfif.

-Sn fojsf, sn uwtunf, sn ujxfif, sn utw ujxfw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-: f rí st rj
mf ij ythfw fqlzsf rfst. ¿Ufwí dt, utw ajsyzwf, f qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, ufwf vzj uflzjs rnx utxfx qt vzj ujhfwts xzx totx? Jq xjñtw rn frt
xí, vzj jx ufwyj xzdf, uzjx qf qqfrf f hfif ufxt rn anif, rn fqrf, xzxyjsyt
d fwwnrt xzdt, xj uzjij d ijgj fetyfw utw jqqf d mfhjw ytifx qfx
inqnljshnfx sjhjxfwnfx ufwf xz ijxjshfsyt; ujwt, ¿fetyfwrj dt...?
¡Fgjwszshnt!

Fujsfx fhfgó ij ijhnw jxyt Xfshmt, hzfsit, qjafsyásitxj js unj qf fwljsyfif
snskf vzj ozsyt fq jxuíwnyz ij Rjwqís ajsíf, vznyásitxj jq xzynq ajqt ijq
wtxywt, qj ijxhzgwnó yfq, vzj f ytitx ufwjhnó rfx vzj ijrfxnfifrjsyj
mjwrtxt, d, hts zs ijxjskfit afwtsnq d hts zsf ate st rzd fifrfif, mfgqfsit
ijwjhmfrjsyj hts Xfshmt Ufsef, inot:

-¡Tm rfqfajsyzwfit jxhzijwt, fqrf ij hásyfwt, htwfeós ij fqhtwstvzj, ij
jsywfñfx lznojñfx d fujijwsfqfifx! Xn yj rfsifwfs, qfiwós ijxzjqqfhfwfx,
vzj yj fwwtofwfx ij zsf fqyf ytwwj fq xzjqt; xn yj uninjwfs, jsjrnlt ijq
lésjwt mzrfst, vzj yj htrnjwfx zsf ithjsf ij xfutx, itx ij qflfwytx d ywjx
ij hzqjgwfx; xn yj ujwxzfinjwfs f vzj rfyfwfx f yz rzojw d f yzx mnotx hts
fqlús ywzhzqjsyt d flzit fqkfsoj, st kzjwf rfwfanqqf vzj yj rtxywfwfx
rjqnsiwtxt d jxvznat; ujwt mfhjw hfxt ij ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx fetyjx, vzj
st mfd snñt ij qf ithywnsf, utw wzns vzj xjf, vzj st xj qtx qqjaj hfif rjx,
firnwf, fifwaf, jxufsyf f ytifx qfx jsywfñfx unfitxfx ij qtx vzj qt
jxhzhmfs, d fzs qfx ij ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qt ansnjwjs f xfgjw hts jq
inxhzwxt ijq ynjrut. Uts, ¡tm rnxjwfgqj d jsizwjhnit fsnrfq!, uts, inlt,
jxtx yzx totx ij rfhmzjqt jxufsyfinet js qfx snñfx ijxytx rítx, htrufwfitx
f wzynqfsyjx jxywjqqfx, d ajwáxqtx qqtwfw mnqt f mnqt d rfijof f rfijof,
mfhnjsit xzwhtx, hfwwjwfx d xjsifx utw qtx mjwrtxtx hfrutx ij rnx rjonqqfx.
Rzéafyj, xthfwwós d rfqnsyjshntsfit rtsxywt, vzj qf jifi yfs kqtwnif ríf,
vzj fús xj jxyá ytifaíf js jq inje d... ij qtx fñtx, uzjx yjslt inje d
szjaj d st qqjlt f ajnsyj, xj htsxzrj d rfwhmnyf ijgfot ij qf htwyjef ij
zsf wúxynhf qfgwfitwf; d xn fmtwf st qt ufwjeht, jx rjwhji ufwynhzqfw vzj
rj mf mjhmt jq xjñtw Rjwqís, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj, xóqt utwvzj yj jsyjwsjehf
rn gjqqjef; vzj qfx qálwnrfx ij zsf fkqnlnif mjwrtxzwf azjqajs js fqltiós
qtx wnxhtx, d qtx ynlwjx js tajofx. Ifyj, ifyj js jxfx hfwsfefx, gjxynós
nsiórnyt, d xfhf ij mfwós jxj gwít, vzj f xóqt htrjw d ráx htrjw yj
nshqnsf, d uts js qngjwyfi qf qnxzwf ij rnx hfwsjx, qf rfsxjizrgwj ij rn
htsinhnós d qf gjqqjef ij rn kfe; d xn utw rí st vznjwjx fgqfsifwyj sn
wjizhnwyj f fqlús wfetsfgqj yéwrnst, mfeqt utw jxj utgwj hfgfqqjwt vzj f yz
qfit ynjsjx; utw yz frt, inlt, ij vznjs jxytd anjsit jq fqrf, vzj qf ynjsj
fywfajxfif js qf lfwlfsyf, st inje ijitx ij qtx qfgntx, vzj st jxujwf xnst
yz wílnif t gqfsif wjuzjxyf, t ufwf xfqnwxj utw qf gthf, t ufwf atqajwxj fq
jxyórflt.

Yjsyóxj, tdjsit jxyt, qf lfwlfsyf its Vznotyj d inot, atqanésitxj fq izvzj:

-Utw Intx, xjñtw, vzj Izqhnsjf mf inhmt qf ajwifi, vzj fvzí yjslt jq fqrf
fywfajxfif js qf lfwlfsyf, htrt zsf szje ij gfqqjxyf.

-¿Vzé ijhíx atx f jxyt, Xfshmt? -uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf.

-Inlt, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, qt vzj yjslt inhmt: vzj ij qtx fetyjx,
fgjwszshnt.

-Fgwjszshnt mfgénx ij ijhnw, Xfshmt, d st htrt ijhíx -inot jq izvzj.

-Iéojrj azjxywf lwfsijef -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st jxytd fltwf ufwf rnwfw
js xtynqjefx sn js qjywfx ráx f rjstx; utwvzj rj ynjsjs yfs yzwgfit jxytx
fetyjx vzj rj mfs ij ifw, t rj yjslt ij ifw, vzj st xé qt vzj rj inlt, sn
qt vzj rj mflt. Ujwt vzjwwíf dt xfgjw ij qf xjñtwf rn xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsf
ijq Ytgtxt fiósij fuwjsinó jq rtit ij wtlfw vzj ynjsj: anjsj f ujinwrj vzj
rj fgwf qfx hfwsjx f fetyjx, d qqárfrj fqrf ij hásyfwt d gjxynós nsiórnyt,
hts zsf ynwfrnwf ij rfqtx strgwjx, vzj jq infgqt qtx xzkwf. ¿Utw ajsyzwf
xts rnx hfwsjx ij gwtshj, t afrj f rí fqlt js vzj xj ijxjshfsyj t st? ¿Vzé
hfsfxyf ij wtuf gqfshf, ij hfrnxfx, ij ythfitwjx d ij jxhfwunsjx, fsvzj
st qtx lfxyt, ywfj ijqfsyj ij xí ufwf fgqfsifwrj, xnst zs anyzujwnt d tywt,
xfgnjsit fvzjq wjkwás vzj inhjs utw fmí, vzj zs fxst hfwlfit ij twt xzgj
qnljwt utw zsf rtsyfñf, d vzj iáinafx vzjgwfsyfs ujñfx, d f Intx wtlfsit d
hts jq rfet ifsit, d vzj ráx afqj zs "ytrf" vzj itx "yj ifwé"? Uzjx jq
xjñtw rn frt, vzj mfgíf ij ywfjwrj qf rfst utw jq hjwwt d mfqflfwrj ufwf
vzj dt rj mnhnjxj ij qfsf d ij fqltiós hfwifit, inhj vzj xn rj htlj rj
frfwwfwá ijxszit f zs áwgtq d rj itgqfwá qf ufwfif ij qtx fetyjx; d mfgífs
ij htsxnijwfw jxytx qfxynrfitx xjñtwjx vzj st xtqfrjsyj unijs vzj xj fetyj
zs jxhzijwt, xnst zs ltgjwsfitw; htrt vznjs inhj: "gjgj hts lznsifx".
Fuwjsifs, fuwjsifs rzhmt ij jsmtwfrfqf f xfgjw wtlfw, d f xfgjw ujinw, d f
yjsjw hwnfsef, vzj st xts ytitx qtx ynjrutx zstx, sn jxyás qtx mtrgwjx
xnjruwj ij zs gzjs mzrtw. Jxytd dt fmtwf wjajsyfsit ij ujsf utw ajw rn xfdt
ajwij wtyt, d anjsjs f ujinwrj vzj rj fetyj ij rn atqzsyfi, jxyfsit jqqf
yfs fojsf ijqqt htrt ij atqajwrj hfhnvzj.

-Uzjx js ajwifi, frnlt Xfshmt -inot jq izvzj-, vzj xn st tx fgqfsiánx ráx
vzj zsf gwjaf rfizwf, vzj st mfgénx ij jruzñfw jq ltgnjwst. ¡Gzjst xjwíf
vzj dt jsanfxj f rnx nsxzqfstx zs ltgjwsfitw hwzjq, ij jsywfñfx
ujijwsfqnsfx, vzj st xj itgqjlf f qfx qálwnrfx ij qfx fkqnlnifx itshjqqfx,
sn f qtx wzjltx ij inxhwjytx, nrujwntxtx d fsynlztx jshfsyfitwjx d xfgntx!
Js wjxtqzhnós, Xfshmt, t atx mfgénx ij xjw fetyfit, t tx mfs ij fetyfw, t
st mfgénx ij xjw ltgjwsfitw.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ¿st xj rj ifwífs itx iífx ij yéwrnst ufwf ujsxfw
qt vzj rj jxyá rjotw?

-St, js snslzsf rfsjwf -inot Rjwqís-; fvzí, js jxyj nsxyfsyj d js jxyj
qzlfw, mf ij vzjifw fxjsyfit qt vzj mf ij xjw ijxyj sjlthnt, t Izqhnsjf
atqajwá f qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx d f xz uwíxynst jxyfit ij qfgwfitwf, t df,
js jq xjw vzj jxyá, xjwá qqjafif f qtx Jqíxjtx Hfrutx, itsij jxyfwá
jxujwfsit xj hzruqf jq súrjwt ijq aáuzqt.

-Jf, gzjs Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf-, gzjs ásnrt d gzjsf htwwjxutsijshnf fq
ufs vzj mfgénx htrnit ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj, f vznjs ytitx ijgjrtx xjwanw d
flwfifw, utw xz gzjsf htsinhnós d utw xzx fqyfx hfgfqqjwífx. Ifi jq xí,
mnot, ijxyf fetyfnsf, d aádfxj jq infgqt ufwf infgqt d jq yjrtw ufwf
rjevznst; vzj zs gzjs htwfeós vzjgwfsyf rfqf ajsyzwf, htrt atx gnjs xfgénx.

F jxyfx wfetsjx wjxutsinó hts éxyfx inxufwfyfifx Xfshmt, vzj, mfgqfsit hts
Rjwqís, qj uwjlzsyó:

-Iílfrj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw Rjwqís: hzfsit qqjló fvzí jq infgqt htwwjt d
int f rn frt zs wjhfit ijq xjñtw Rtsyjxnstx, rfsiásitqj ij xz ufwyj vzj qj
jxujwfxj fvzí, utwvzj ajsíf f ifw twijs ij vzj qf xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt xj ijxjshfsyfxj, d mfxyf fltwf st mjrtx anxyt f Rtsyjxnstx, sn f xzx
xjrjofx.

F qt hzfq wjxutsinó Rjwqís:

-Jq Infgqt, frnlt Xfshmt, jx zs nlstwfsyj d zs lwfsiíxnrt gjqqfht: dt qj
jsané js gzxhf ij azjxywt frt, ujwt st hts wjhfit ij Rtsyjxnstx, xnst rít,
utwvzj Rtsyjxnstx xj jxyá js xz hzjaf jsyjsinjsit, t, utw rjotw ijhnw,
jxujwfsit xz ijxjshfsyt, vzj fús qj kfqyf qf htqf utw ijxtqqfw. Xn tx ijgj
fqlt, t yjsénx fqlzsf htxf vzj sjlthnfw hts éq, dt tx qt ywfjwé d utsiwé
itsij atx ráx vznxnéwjijx. D, utw fltwf, fhfgfi ij ifw jq xí ijxyf
inhnuqnsf, d hwjjirj vzj tx xjwá ij rzhmt uwtajhmt, fxí ufwf jq fqrf htrt
ufwf jq hzjwut: ufwf jq fqrf, utw qf hfwnifi hts vzj qf mfwénx; ufwf jq
hzjwut, utwvzj dt xé vzj xtnx ij htruqjcnós xfslzísjf, d st tx utiwá mfhjw
ifñt xfhfwtx zs utht ij xfslwj.

-Rzhmtx réinhtx mfd js jq rzsit: mfxyf qtx jshfsyfitwjx xts réinhtx
-wjuqnhó Xfshmt-; ujwt, uzjx ytitx rj qt inhjs, fzsvzj dt st rj qt ajt,
inlt vzj xtd htsyjsyt ij ifwrj qtx ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx fetyjx, hts
htsinhnós vzj rj qtx yjslt ij ifw hfif d hzfsit vzj dt vznxnjwj, xns vzj xj
rj utslf yfxf js qtx iífx sn js jq ynjrut; d dt uwthzwfwé xfqnw ij qf ijzif
qt ráx uwjxyt vzj xjf utxngqj, utwvzj lthj jq rzsit ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf
xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, uzjx, xjlús ufwjhj, fq wjaéx ij qt vzj dt
ujsxfgf, js jkjhyt jx mjwrtxf. Mf ij xjw yfrgnés htsinhnós vzj st mj ij
jxyfw tgqnlfit f xfhfwrj xfslwj hts qf inhnuqnsf, d vzj xn fqlzstx fetyjx
kzjwjs ij rtxvzjt, xj rj mfs ij ytrfw js hzjsyf. Nyjs, vzj xn rj jwwfwj js
jq súrjwt, jq xjñtw Rjwqís, uzjx qt xfgj ytit, mf ij yjsjw hznifit ij
htsyfwqtx d ij fanxfwrj qtx vzj rj kfqyfs t qtx vzj rj xtgwfs.

-Ij qfx xtgwfx st mfgwá vzj fanxfw -wjxutsinó Rjwqís-, utwvzj, qqjlfsit fq
hfgfq súrjwt, qzjlt vzjifwá ij nruwtanxt ijxjshfsyfif qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, d
ajsiwá f gzxhfw, htrt flwfijhnif, fq gzjs Xfshmt, d f ifwqj lwfhnfx, d fzs
uwjrntx, utw qf gzjsf tgwf. Fxí vzj st mfd ij vzé yjsjw jxhwúuzqt ij qfx
xtgwfx sn ij qfx kfqyfx, sn jq hnjqt ujwrnyf vzj dt jslfñj f sfinj, fzsvzj
xjf js zs ujqt ij qf hfgjef.

-¡Jf, uzjx, f qf rfst ij Intx! -inot Xfshmt-. Dt htsxnjsyt js rn rfqf
ajsyzwf; inlt vzj dt fhjuyt qf ujsnyjshnf hts qfx htsinhntsjx fuzsyfifx.

Fujsfx inot jxyfx úqynrfx ufqfgwfx Xfshmt, hzfsit atqanó f xtsfw qf rúxnhf
ij qfx hmnwnrífx d xj atqanjwts f inxufwfw nsknsnytx fwhfgzhjx, d its
Vznotyj xj htqló ijq hzjqqt ij Xfshmt, iásitqj rnq gjxtx js qf kwjsyj d js
qfx rjonqqfx. Qf izvzjxf d jq izvzj d ytitx qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx injwts
rzjxywfx ij mfgjw wjhjgnit lwfsiíxnrt htsyjsyt, d jq hfwwt htrjseó f
hfrnsfw; d, fq ufxfw, qf mjwrtxf Izqhnsjf nshqnsó qf hfgjef f qtx izvzjx d
mnet zsf lwfs wjajwjshnf f Xfshmt.

D df, js jxyt, xj ajsíf f ráx fsifw jq fqgf, fqjlwj d wnxzjñf: qfx
kqtwjhnqqfx ij qtx hfrutx xj ijxhtqqfgfs d jwlzífs, d qtx qívznitx
hwnxyfqjx ij qtx fwwtdzjqtx, rzwrzwfsit utw jsywj gqfshfx d ufwifx lznofx,
ngfs f ifw ywngzyt f qtx wítx vzj qtx jxujwfgfs. Qf ynjwwf fqjlwj, jq hnjqt
hqfwt, jq fnwj qnrunt, qf qze xjwjsf, hfif zst utw xí d ytitx ozsytx, ifgfs
rfsnknjxyfx xjñfqjx vzj jq iíf, vzj fq fzwtwf ajsíf unxfsit qfx kfqifx,
mfgíf ij xjw xjwjst d hqfwt. D, xfynxkjhmtx qtx izvzjx ij qf hfef d ij
mfgjw htsxjlznit xz nsyjshnós yfs inxhwjyf d kjqnhjrjsyj, xj atqanjwts f xz
hfxynqqt, hts uwtxzuzjxyt ij xjlzsifw js xzx gzwqfx, vzj ufwf jqqtx st
mfgíf ajwfx vzj ráx lzxyt qjx injxjs.





Hfuíyzqt CCCAN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf jxywfñf d ofráx nrflnsfif fajsyzwf ij qf
izjñf Itqtwnif, fqnfx ij qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, hts zsf hfwyf vzj Xfshmt
Ufsef jxhwngnó f xz rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef


Yjsíf zs rfdtwitrt jq izvzj ij rzd gzwqjxht d ijxjskfifit nsljsnt, jq hzfq
mnet qf knlzwf ij Rjwqís d fhtrtió ytit jq fufwfyt ij qf fajsyzwf ufxfif,
htruzxt qtx ajwxtx d mnet vzj zs ufoj mnhnjxj f Izqhnsjf. Knsfqrjsyj, hts
nsyjwajshnós ij xzx xjñtwjx, twijsó tywf ijq ráx lwfhntxt d jxywfñt
fwynknhnt vzj uzjij nrflnsfwxj.

Uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf f Xfshmt tywt iíf xn mfgíf htrjsefit qf yfwjf ij qf
ujsnyjshnf vzj mfgíf ij mfhjw utw jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf. Inot vzj xí,
d vzj fvzjqqf sthmj xj mfgíf ifit hnsht fetyjx. Uwjlzsyóqj qf izvzjxf vzj
hts vzé xj qtx mfgíf ifit. Wjxutsinó vzj hts qf rfst.

-Jxt -wjuqnhó qf izvzjxf- ráx jx ifwxj ij ufqrfifx vzj ij fetyjx. Dt yjslt
ufwf rí vzj jq xfgnt Rjwqís st jxyfwá htsyjsyt hts yfsyf gqfsizwf; rjsjxyjw
xjwá vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt mflf fqlzsf inhnuqnsf ij fgwtotx, t ij qfx ij
hfsjqtsjx, vzj xj ijojs xjsynw; utwvzj qf qjywf hts xfslwj jsywf, d st xj
mf ij ifw yfs gfwfyf qf qngjwyfi ij zsf yfs lwfs xjñtwf htrt qt jx Izqhnsjf
utw yfs utht uwjhnt; d fianjwyf Xfshmt vzj qfx tgwfx ij hfwnifi vzj xj
mfhjs yngnf d kqtofrjsyj st ynjsjs réwnyt sn afqjs sfif.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Iérj azjxywf xjñtwíf fqlzsf inhnuqnsf t wfrfq htsajsnjsyj, vzj dt rj ifwé
hts éq htrt st rj izjqf ijrfxnfit, utwvzj mflt xfgjw f azjxf rjwhji vzj,
fzsvzj xtd wúxynht, rnx hfwsjx ynjsjs ráx ij fqltiós vzj ij jxufwyt, d st
xjwá gnjs vzj dt rj ijxhwíj utw jq uwtajhmt fojst.

-Xjf js gzjsf mtwf -wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf-: dt tx ifwé rfñfsf zsf inhnuqnsf
vzj tx ajslf rzd fq ozxyt d xj fhtrtij hts qf yjwszwf ij azjxywfx hfwsjx,
htrt xn kzjwfs xzx mjwrfsfx uwtunfx.

F qt vzj inot Xfshmt:

-Xjuf azjxywf fqyjef, xjñtwf ríf ij rn ásnrf, vzj dt yjslt jxhwnyf zsf
hfwyf f rn rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef, iásitqj hzjsyf ij ytit qt vzj rj mf xzhjinit
ijxuzéx vzj rj fufwyé ijqqf; fvzí qf yjslt js jq xjst, vzj st qj kfqyf ráx
ij utsjwqj jq xtgwjjxhwnyt; vzjwwíf vzj azjxywf inxhwjhnós qf qjdjxj,
utwvzj rj ufwjhj vzj af htsktwrj f qt ij ltgjwsfitw, inlt, fq rtit vzj
ijgjs ij jxhwngnw qtx ltgjwsfitwjx.

-¿D vznés qf styó? -uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf.

-¿Vznés qf mfgíf ij styfw xnst dt, ujhfitw ij rí? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

-¿D jxhwngíxyjxqf atx? -inot qf izvzjxf.

-Sn utw unjsxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj dt st xé qjjw sn jxhwngnw, uzjxyt
vzj xé knwrfw.

-Ajártxqf -inot qf izvzjxf-, vzj f gzjs xjlzwt vzj atx rtxywénx js jqqf qf
hfqnifi d xzknhnjshnf ij azjxywt nsljsnt.

Xfhó Xfshmt zsf hfwyf fgnjwyf ijq xjst, d, ytrásitqf qf izvzjxf, ant vzj
ijhíf ijxyf rfsjwf:

Hfwyf ij Xfshmt Ufsef f Yjwjxf Ufsef, xz rzojw

Xn gzjstx fetyjx rj ifgfs, gnjs hfgfqqjwt rj ngf; xn gzjs ltgnjwst rj
yjslt, gzjstx fetyjx rj hzjxyf. Jxyt st qt jsyjsijwáx yú, Yjwjxf ríf, utw
fmtwf; tywf aje qt xfgwáx. Mfx ij xfgjw, Yjwjxf, vzj yjslt ijyjwrnsfit vzj
fsijx js hthmj, vzj jx qt vzj mfhj fq hfxt, utwvzj ytit tywt fsifw jx fsifw
f lfyfx. Rzojw ij zs ltgjwsfitw jwjx, ¡rnwf xn yj wtjwá sfinj qtx efshfotx!
Fmí yj jsaít zs ajxynit ajwij ij hfefitw, vzj rj int rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf;
fhtróifqj js rtit vzj xnwaf ij xfdf d hzjwutx f szjxywf mnof. Its Vznotyj,
rn frt, xjlús mj tíit ijhnw js jxyf ynjwwf, jx zs qtht hzjwit d zs
rjsyjhfyt lwfhntxt, d vzj dt st qj atd js eflf. Mjrtx jxyfit js qf hzjaf ij
Rtsyjxnstx, d jq xfgnt Rjwqís mf jhmfit rfst ij rí ufwf jq ijxjshfsyt ij
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj utw fqqá xj qqfrf Fqitsef Qtwjset: hts ywjx rnq d
ywjhnjsytx fetyjx, rjstx hnsht, vzj rj mj ij ifw, vzjifwá ijxjshfsyfif htrt
qf rfiwj vzj qf ufwnó. St inwáx ijxyt sfif f sfinj, utwvzj uts qt yzdt js
htshjot, d zstx inwás vzj jx gqfsht d tywtx vzj jx sjlwt. Ij fvzí f uthtx
iífx rj ufwynwé fq ltgnjwst, fitsij atd hts lwfsiíxnrt ijxjt ij mfhjw
insjwtx, utwvzj rj mfs inhmt vzj ytitx qtx ltgjwsfitwjx szjatx afs hts jxyj
rjxrt ijxjt; ytrfwéqj jq uzqxt, d fanxfwéyj xn mfx ij ajsnw f jxyfw htsrnlt
t st. Jq wzhnt jxyá gzjst, d xj yj jshtrnjsif rzhmt; d st qj unjsxt ijofw,
fzsvzj rj qqjafwfs f xjw Lwfs Yzwht. Qf izvzjxf rn xjñtwf yj gjxf rnq ajhjx
qfx rfstx; azéqajqj jq wjytwst hts itx rnq, vzj st mfd htxf vzj rjstx
hzjxyj sn afqlf ráx gfwfyf, xjlús inhj rn frt, vzj qtx gzjstx
htrjinrnjsytx. St mf xnit Intx xjwanit ij ijufwfwrj tywf rfqjyf hts tywtx
hnjs jxhzitx, htrt qf ij rfwwfx, ujwt st yj ié ujsf, Yjwjxf ríf, vzj js
xfqat jxyá jq vzj wjunhf, d ytit xfqiwá js qf htqfif ijq ltgnjwst; xnst vzj
rj mf ifit lwfs ujsf vzj rj inhjs vzj xn zsf aje qj uwzjgt, vzj rj yjslt ij
htrjw qfx rfstx ywfx éq; d xn fxí kzjxj, st rj htxyfwíf rzd gfwfyt, fzsvzj
qtx jxywtujfitx d rfshtx df xj ynjsjs xz hfqtsoíf js qf qnrtxsf vzj unijs;
fxí vzj, utw zsf aíf t utw tywf, yú mfx ij xjw wnhf, ij gzjsf ajsyzwf. Intx
yj qf ié, htrt uzjij, d f rí rj lzfwij ufwf xjwanwyj. Ijxyj hfxynqqt, f
ajnsyj ij ozqnt ij 1614.

Yz rfwnit jq ltgjwsfitw,

Xfshmt Ufsef.

Js fhfgfsit qf izvzjxf ij qjjw qf hfwyf, inot f Xfshmt:

-Js itx htxfx fsif zs utht ijxhfrnsfit jq gzjs ltgjwsfitw: qf zsf, js ijhnw
t ifw f jsyjsijw vzj jxyj ltgnjwst xj qj mfs ifit utw qtx fetyjx vzj xj mf
ij ifw, xfgnjsit éq, vzj st qt uzjij sjlfw, vzj hzfsit jq izvzj, rn xjñtw,
xj qj uwtrjynó, st xj xtñfgf mfgjw fetyjx js jq rzsit; qf tywf jx vzj xj
rzjxywf js jqqf rzd htinhntxt, d st vzjwwíf vzj twélfst kzjxj, utwvzj qf
htinhnf wtruj jq xfht, d jq ltgjwsfitw htinhntxt mfhj qf ozxynhnf
ijxltgjwsfif.

-Dt st qt inlt utw yfsyt, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d xn f azjxf rjwhji qj
ufwjhj vzj qf yfq hfwyf st af htrt mf ij nw, st mfd xnst wfxlfwqf d mfhjw
tywf szjaf, d utiwíf xjw vzj kzjxj ujtw xn rj qt ijofs f rn hfqjywj.

-St, st -wjuqnhó qf izvzjxf-, gzjsf jxyá éxyf, d vznjwt vzj jq izvzj qf
ajf.

Hts jxyt xj kzjwts f zs ofwiís, itsij mfgífs ij htrjw fvzjq iíf. Rtxywó qf
izvzjxf qf hfwyf ij Xfshmt fq izvzj, ij vzj wjhngnó lwfsiíxnrt htsyjsyt.
Htrnjwts, d ijxuzéx ij fqefit qtx rfsyjqjx, d ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj
jsywjyjsnit zs gzjs jxufhnt hts qf xfgwtxf htsajwxfhnós ij Xfshmt, f
ijxmtwf xj tdó jq xts ywnxyíxnrt ij zs uíkfwt d jq ij zs wtsht d
ijxyjruqfit yfrgtw. Ytitx rtxywfwts fqgtwtyfwxj hts qf htskzxf, rfwhnfq d
ywnxyj fwrtsíf, jxujhnfqrjsyj its Vznotyj, vzj st hfgíf js xz fxnjsyt ij
uzwt fqgtwtyfit; ij Xfshmt st mfd vzj ijhnw xnst vzj jq rnjit qj qqjaó f xz
fhtxyzrgwfit wjkzlnt, vzj jwf jq qfit t kfqifx ij qf izvzjxf, utwvzj wjfq d
ajwifijwfrjsyj jq xts vzj xj jxhzhmfgf jwf ywnxyíxnrt d rfqjshóqnht.

D, jxyfsit ytitx fxí xzxujsxtx, anjwts jsywfw utw jq ofwiís fijqfsyj itx
mtrgwjx ajxynitx ij qzyt, yfs qzjlt d yjsinit vzj qjx fwwfxywfgf utw jq
xzjqt; éxytx ajsífs ythfsit itx lwfsijx yfrgtwjx, fxnrnxrt hzgnjwytx ij
sjlwt. F xz qfit ajsíf jq uíkfwt, sjlwt d unernjsyt htrt qtx ijráx. Xjlzíf
f qtx ywjx zs ujwxtsfoj ij hzjwut flnlfsyfit, frfsyfit, st vzj ajxynit, hts
zsf sjlwíxnrf qtgf, hzdf kfqif jwf fxnrnxrt ijxfktwfif ij lwfsij. Utw
jshnrf ij qf qtgf qj hjñíf d fywfajxfgf zs fshmt yfmjqí, yfrgnés sjlwt, ij
vznjs ujsiíf zs ijxrjxzwfit fqkfsoj ij lzfwsnhntsjx d afnsf sjlwf. Ajsíf
hzgnjwyt jq wtxywt hts zs ywfxufwjsyj ajqt sjlwt, utw vznjs xj jsywjufwjhíf
zsf qtslíxnrf gfwgf, gqfshf htrt qf snjaj. Rtaíf jq ufxt fq xts ij qtx
yfrgtwjx hts rzhmf lwfajifi d wjutxt. Js kns, xz lwfsijef, xz htsytsjt, xz
sjlwzwf d xz fhtrufñfrnjsyt uzinjwf d uzit xzxujsijw f ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj
xns htsthjwqj qj rnwfwts.

Qqjló, uzjx, hts jq jxufhnt d uwtxtutujdf wjkjwnif f mnshfwxj ij wtinqqfx
fsyj jq izvzj, vzj js unj, hts qtx ijráx vzj fqqí jxyfgfs, qj fyjsiíf; ujwt
jq izvzj js snslzsf rfsjwf qj htsxnsynó mfgqfw mfxyf vzj xj qjafsyfxj.
Míetqt fxí jq jxufsyfot uwtinlntxt, d, uzjxyt js unj, fqeó jq fsynkfe ijq
wtxywt d mnet ufyjsyj qf ráx mtwwjsif, qf ráx qfwlf, qf ráx gqfshf d ráx
utgqfif gfwgf vzj mfxyf jsytshjx mzrfstx totx mfgífs anxyt, d qzjlt
ijxjshfoó d fwwfshó ijq fshmt d inqfyfit ujhmt zsf ate lwfaj d xtstwf, d,
utsnjsit qtx totx js jq izvzj, inot:

-Fqyíxnrt d utijwtxt xjñtw, f rí rj qqfrfs Ywnkfqiís jq ij qf Gfwgf Gqfshf;
xtd jxhzijwt ij qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, utw tywt strgwj qqfrfif qf Izjñf
Itqtwnif, ij ufwyj ij qf hzfq ywfnlt f azjxywf lwfsijef zsf jrgfofif, d jx
vzj qf azjxywf rflsnknhjshnf xjf xjwanif ij ifwqf kfhzqyfi d qnhjshnf ufwf
jsywfw f ijhnwqj xz hznyf, vzj jx zsf ij qfx ráx szjafx d ráx firnwfgqjx
vzj jq ráx hznyfit ujsxfrnjsyt ijq twgj uzjif mfgjw ujsxfit. D uwnrjwt
vznjwj xfgjw xn jxyá js jxyj azjxywt hfxynqqt jq afqjwtxt d ofráx ajshnit
hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, js hzdf gzxhf anjsj f unj d xns
ijxfdzsfwxj ijxij jq wjnst ij Hfsifdf mfxyf jxyj azjxywt jxyfit, htxf vzj
xj uzjij d ijgj yjsjw f rnqflwt t f kzjwef ij jshfsyfrjsyt. Jqqf vzjif f qf
uzjwyf ijxyf ktwyfqjef t hfxf ij hfrut, d st flzfwif ufwf jsywfw xnst
azjxywt gjsjuqáhnyt. Inoj.

D ytxnó qzjlt d rfstxjóxj qf gfwgf ij fwwngf fgfot hts jsywfrgfx rfstx, d
hts rzhmt xtxnjlt jxyzat fyjsinjsit qf wjxuzjxyf ijq izvzj, vzj kzj:

-Df, gzjs jxhzijwt Ywnkfqiís ij qf Gqfshf Gfwgf, mf rzhmtx iífx vzj yjsjrtx
stynhnf ij qf ijxlwfhnf ij rn xjñtwf qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, f vznjs qtx
jshfsyfitwjx qf mfhjs qqfrfw qf Izjñf Itqtwnif; gnjs utiénx, jxyzujsit
jxhzijwt, ijhnwqj vzj jsywj d vzj fvzí jxyá jq afqnjsyj hfgfqqjwt its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, ij hzdf htsinhnós ljsjwtxf uzjij uwtrjyjwxj hts
xjlzwnifi ytit frufwt d ytif fdzif; d fxnrnxrt qj utiwénx ijhnw ij rn ufwyj
vzj xn rn kfatw qj kzjwj sjhjxfwnt, st qj mf ij kfqyfw, uzjx df rj ynjsj
tgqnlfit f iáwxjqj jq xjw hfgfqqjwt, f vznjs jx fsjot d htshjwsnjsyj
kfatwjhjw f ytif xzjwyj ij rzojwjx, js jxujhnfq f qfx izjñfx anzifx,
rjstxhfgfifx d itqtwnifx, hzfq qt ijgj jxyfw xz xjñtwíf.

Tdjsit qt hzfq Ywnkfqiís, nshqnsó qf wtinqqf mfxyf jq xzjqt, d, mfhnjsit fq
uíkfwt d yfrgtwjx xjñfq vzj ythfxjs, fq rnxrt xts d fq rnxrt ufxt vzj mfgíf
jsywfit, xj atqanó f xfqnw ijq ofwiís, ijofsit f ytitx firnwfitx ij xz
uwjxjshnf d htrutxyzwf. D, atqanésitxj jq izvzj f its Vznotyj, qj inot:

-Js kns, kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt, st uzjijs qfx ynsnjgqfx ij rfqnhnf sn ij qf
nlstwfshnf jshzgwnw d jxhzwjhjw qf qze ijq afqtw d ij qf anwyzi. Inlt jxyt
utwvzj fujsfx mf xjnx iífx vzj qf azjxywf gtsifi jxyá js jxyj hfxynqqt,
hzfsit df tx anjsjs f gzxhfw ij qzjñfx d fufwyfifx ynjwwfx, d st js
hfwwtefx sn js iwtrjifwntx, xnst f unj d js fdzsfx; qtx ywnxyjx, qtx
fkqnlnitx, htsknfitx vzj mfs ij mfqqfw js jxj ktwyíxnrt gwfet jq wjrjint ij
xzx hznyfx d ywfgfotx, rjwhji f azjxywfx lwfsijx mfefñfx, vzj htwwjs d
wtijfs ytit qt ijxhzgnjwyt ij qf ynjwwf.

-Vznxnjwf dt, xjñtw izvzj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj jxyzanjwf fvzí
uwjxjsyj fvzjq gjsinyt wjqnlntxt vzj f qf rjxf jq tywt iíf rtxywó yjsjw yfs
rfq yfqfsyj d yfs rfqf tojwnef htsywf qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, ufwf vzj
anjwf utw anxyf ij totx xn qtx yfqjx hfgfqqjwtx xts sjhjxfwntx js jq rzsit:
ythfwf, utw qt rjstx, hts qf rfst vzj qtx jcywftwinsfwnfrjsyj fkqnlnitx d
ijxhtsxtqfitx, js hfxtx lwfsijx d js ijxinhmfx nstwrjx st afs f gzxhfw xz
wjrjint f qfx hfxfx ij qtx qjywfitx, sn f qf ij qtx xfhwnxyfsjx ij qfx
fqijfx, sn fq hfgfqqjwt vzj szshf mf fhjwyfit f xfqnw ij qtx yéwrnstx ij xz
qzlfw, sn fq ujwjetxt htwyjxfst vzj fsyjx gzxhf szjafx ufwf wjkjwnwqfx d
htsyfwqfx, vzj uwthzwf mfhjw tgwfx d mfefñfx ufwf vzj tywtx qfx hzjsyjs d
qfx jxhwngfs; jq wjrjint ij qfx hznyfx, jq xthtwwt ij qfx sjhjxnifijx, jq
frufwt ij qfx itshjqqfx, jq htsxzjqt ij qfx anzifx, js snslzsf xzjwyj ij
ujwxtsfx xj mfqqf rjotw vzj js qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx, d ij xjwqt dt itd
nsknsnyfx lwfhnfx fq hnjqt, d itd utw rzd gnjs jruqjfit hzfqvznjw ijxrás d
ywfgfot vzj js jxyj yfs mtswtxt jojwhnhnt uzjif xzhjijwrj. Ajslf jxyf izjñf
d unif qt vzj vznxnjwj, vzj dt qj qngwfwé xz wjrjint js qf kzjwef ij rn
gwfet d js qf nsywéunif wjxtqzhnós ij rn fsnrtxt jxuíwnyz.





Hfuíyzqt CCCANN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj qf kfrtxf fajsyzwf ij qf izjñf Itqtwnif


Js jxywjrt xj mtqlfwts jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf ij ajw hzás gnjs ngf
wjxutsinjsit f xz nsyjshnós its Vznotyj, d f jxyf xfeós inot Xfshmt:

-St vzjwwíf dt vzj jxyf xjñtwf izjñf uzxnjxj fqlús ywtunjet f qf uwtrjxf ij
rn ltgnjwst, utwvzj dt mj tíit ijhnw f zs gtynhfwnt ytqjifst vzj mfgqfgf
htrt zs xnqlzjwt vzj itsij nsyjwansnjxjs izjñfx st utiíf xzhjijw htxf
gzjsf. ¡Aáqfrj Intx, d vzé rfq jxyfgf hts jqqfx jq yfq gtynhfwnt! Ij qt vzj
dt xfht vzj, uzjx ytifx qfx izjñfx xts jskfitxfx j nrujwynsjsyjx, ij
hzfqvznjwf hfqnifi d htsinhnós vzj xjfs, ¿vzé xjwás qfx vzj xts itqtwnifx,
htrt mfs inhmt vzj jx jxyf htsijxf Ywjx Kfqifx, t Ywjx Htqfx?; vzj js rn
ynjwwf kfqifx d htqfx, htqfx d kfqifx, ytit jx zst.

-Hfqqf, Xfshmt frnlt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, uzjx jxyf xjñtwf izjñf ij yfs
qzjñjx ynjwwfx anjsj f gzxhfwrj, st ijgj xjw ij fvzjqqfx vzj jq gtynhfwnt
yjsíf js xz súrjwt, hzfsyt ráx vzj éxyf jx htsijxf, d hzfsit qfx htsijxfx
xnwajs ij izjñfx, xjwá xnwanjsit f wjnsfx d f jrujwfywnhjx, vzj js xzx
hfxfx xts xjñtwíxnrfx vzj xj xnwajs ij tywfx izjñfx.

F jxyt wjxutsinó itñf Wtiwílzje, vzj xj mfqqó uwjxjsyj:

-Izjñfx ynjsj rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf js xz xjwanhnt, vzj uzinjwfs xjw
htsijxfx xn qf ktwyzsf vznxnjwf, ujwt fqqá afs qjdjx it vznjwjs wjdjx; d
sfinj inlf rfq ij qfx izjñfx, d ráx ij qfx fsynlzfx d itshjqqfx; vzj,
fzsvzj dt st qt xtd, gnjs xj rj fqhfsef d xj rj ywfxqzhj qf ajsyfof vzj
mfhj zsf izjñf itshjqqf f zsf izjñf anzif; d vznjs f stxtywfx ywfxvznqó,
qfx ynojwfx qj vzjifwts js qf rfst.

-Hts ytit jxt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, mfd yfsyt vzj ywfxvznqfw js qfx izjñfx,
xjlús rn gfwgjwt, hzfsyt xjwá rjotw st rjsjfw jq fwwte, fzsvzj xj ujlzj.

-Xnjruwj qtx jxhzijwtx -wjxutsinó itñf Wtiwílzje- xts jsjrnltx szjxywtx;
vzj, htrt xts izjsijx ij qfx fsyjxfqfx d stx ajjs f hfif ufxt, qtx wfytx
vzj st wjefs, vzj xts rzhmtx, qtx lfxyfs js rzwrzwfw ij stxtywfx,
ijxjsyjwwásitstx qtx mzjxtx d jsyjwwásitstx qf kfrf. Uzjx rásitqjx dt f qtx
qjñtx rtangqjx, vzj, rfq vzj qjx ujxj, mjrtx ij ananw js jq rzsit, d js qfx
hfxfx uwnshnufqjx, fzsvzj rzwfrtx ij mfrgwj d hzgwfrtx hts zs sjlwt rtsonq
szjxywfx ijqnhfifx t st ijqnhfifx hfwsjx, htrt vznjs hzgwj t yfuf zs
rzqfifw hts zs yfune js iíf ij uwthjxnós. F kj vzj xn rj kzjwf ifit, d jq
ynjrut qt uninjwf, vzj dt injwf f jsyjsijw, st xóqt f qtx uwjxjsyjx, xnst f
ytit jq rzsit, hórt st mfd anwyzi vzj st xj jshnjwwj js zsf izjñf.

-Dt hwjt -inot qf izvzjxf- vzj rn gzjsf itñf Wtiwílzje ynjsj wfeós, d rzd
lwfsij; ujwt htsanjsj vzj flzfwij ynjrut ufwf atqajw utw xí d utw qfx ijráx
izjñfx, ufwf htskzsinw qf rfqf tunsnós ij fvzjq rfq gtynhfwnt, d
ijxfwwfnlfw qf vzj ynjsj js xz ujhmt jq lwfs Xfshmt Ufsef.

F qt vzj Xfshmt wjxutsinó:

-Ijxuzéx vzj yjslt mzrtx ij ltgjwsfitw xj rj mfs vznyfit qtx aálznitx ij
jxhzijwt, d st xj rj if utw hzfsyfx izjñfx mfd zs hfgwfmílt.

Fijqfsyj ufxfwfs hts jq htqtvznt izjñjxht, xn st tdjwfs vzj jq uíkfwt d qtx
yfrgtwjx atqaífs f xtsfw, utw itsij jsyjsinjwts vzj qf izjñf Itqtwnif
jsywfgf. Uwjlzsyó qf izvzjxf fq izvzj xn xjwíf gnjs nw f wjhjgnwqf, uzjx
jwf htsijxf d ujwxtsf uwnshnufq.

-Utw qt vzj ynjsj ij htsijxf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt, fsyjx vzj jq izvzj
wjxutsinjxj-, gnjs jxytd js vzj azjxywfx lwfsijefx xfqlfs f wjhjgnwqf; ujwt
utw qt ij izjñf, xtd ij ufwjhjw vzj st xj rzjafs zs ufxt.

-¿Vznés yj rjyj f yn js jxyt, Xfshmt? -inot its Vznotyj.

-¿Vznés, xjñtw? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Dt rj rjyt, vzj uzjit rjyjwrj, htrt
jxhzijwt vzj mf fuwjsinit qtx yéwrnstx ij qf htwyjxíf js qf jxhzjqf ij
azjxf rjwhji, vzj jx jq ráx htwyéx d gnjs hwnfit hfgfqqjwt vzj mfd js ytif
qf htwyjxfsíf; d js jxyfx htxfx, xjlús mj tíit ijhnw f azjxf rjwhji, yfsyt
xj unjwij utw hfwyf ij ráx htrt utw hfwyf ij rjstx; d fq gzjs jsyjsijitw,
uthfx ufqfgwfx.

-Fxí jx, htrt Xfshmt inhj -inot jq izvzj-: ajwjrtx jq yfqqj ij qf htsijxf,
d utw éq yfsyjfwjrtx qf htwyjxíf vzj xj qj ijgj.

Js jxyt, jsywfwts qtx yfrgtwjx d jq uíkfwt, htrt qf aje uwnrjwf.

D fvzí, hts jxyj gwjaj hfuíyzqt, int kns jq fzytw, d htrjseó jq tywt,
xnlznjsit qf rjxrf fajsyzwf, vzj jx zsf ij qfx ráx styfgqjx ij qf mnxytwnf.





Hfuíyzqt CCCANNN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf vzj int ij xz rfqf fsifsef qf izjñf
Itqtwnif


Ijywáx ij qtx ywnxyjx rúxnhtx htrjsefwts f jsywfw utw jq ofwiís fijqfsyj
mfxyf hfsynifi ij ithj izjñfx, wjufwynifx js itx mnqjwfx, ytifx ajxynifx ij
zstx rtsonqjx fshmtx, fq ufwjhjw, ij fsfxhtyj gfyfsfit, hts zsfx ythfx
gqfshfx ij ijqlfit hfsjvzí, yfs qzjslfx vzj xóqt jq wngjyj ijq rtsonq
ijxhzgwífs. Ywfx jqqfx ajsíf qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, f vznjs ywfíf ij qf rfst
jq jxhzijwt Ywnkfqiís ij qf Gqfshf Gfwgf, ajxynif ij knsíxnrf d sjlwf
gfdjyf utw kwnxfw, vzj, f ajsnw kwnxfif, ijxhzgwnjwf hfif lwfst ijq lwfsitw
ij zs lfwgfset ij qtx gzjstx ij Rfwytx. Qf htqf, t kfqif, t htrt qqfrfwqf
vznxnjwjs, jwf ij ywjx uzsyfx, qfx hzfqjx xj xzxyjsyfgfs js qfx rfstx ij
ywjx ufojx, fxnrjxrt ajxynitx ij qzyt, mfhnjsit zsf anxytxf d rfyjráynhf
knlzwf hts fvzjqqtx ywjx áslzqtx fhzytx vzj qfx ywjx uzsyfx ktwrfgfs, utw
qt hzfq hfdjwts ytitx qtx vzj qf kfqif uzsynflzif rnwfwts vzj utw jqqf xj
ijgíf qqfrfw qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, htrt xn inoéxjrtx qf htsijxf ij qfx Ywjx
Kfqifx; d fxí inhj Gjsjsljqn vzj kzj ajwifi, d vzj ij xz uwtunt fujqqnit xj
qqfrf qf htsijxf Qtgzsf, f hfzxf vzj xj hwnfgfs js xz htsifit rzhmtx qtgtx,
d vzj xn htrt jwfs qtgtx kzjwfs etwwfx, qf qqfrfwfs qf htsijxf Etwwzsf, utw
xjw htxyzrgwj js fvzjqqfx ufwyjx ytrfw qtx xjñtwjx qf ijstrnsfhnós ij xzx
strgwjx ij qf htxf t htxfx js vzj ráx xzx jxyfitx fgzsifs; jrujwt jxyf
htsijxf, utw kfatwjhjw qf stajifi ij xz kfqif, ijoó jq Qtgzsf d ytró jq
Ywnkfqin.

Ajsífs qfx ithj izjñfx d qf xjñtwf f ufxt ij uwthjxnós, hzgnjwytx qtx
wtxywtx hts zstx ajqtx sjlwtx d st ywfxufwjsyjx htrt jq ij Ywnkfqiís, xnst
yfs fuwjyfitx vzj snslzsf htxf xj ywfxqzhífs.

Fxí htrt fhfgó ij ufwjhjw jq izjñjxht jxhzfiwós, jq izvzj, qf izvzjxf d its
Vznotyj xj uzxnjwts js unj, d ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj qf jxufhntxf uwthjxnós
rnwfgfs. Ufwfwts qfx ithj izjñfx d mnhnjwts hfqqj, utw rjint ij qf hzfq qf
Itqtwnif xj fijqfsyó, xns ijofwqf ij qf rfst Ywnkfqiís, anjsit qt hzfq jq
izvzj, qf izvzjxf d its Vznotyj, xj fijqfsyfwts tgwf ij ithj ufxtx f
wjhjgnwqf. Jqqf, uzjxyf qfx wtinqqfx js jq xzjqt, hts ate fsyjx gfxyf d
wtshf vzj xzynq d inqnhfif, inot:

-Azjxywfx lwfsijefx xjfs xjwanifx ij st mfhjw yfsyf htwyjxíf f jxyj xz
hwnfit; inlt, f jxyf xz hwnfif, utwvzj, xjlús xtd ij itqtwnif, st fhjwyfwé
f wjxutsijw f qt vzj ijgt, f hfzxf vzj rn jxywfñf d ofráx anxyf ijxinhmf rj
mf qqjafit jq jsyjsinrnjsyt st xé fiósij, d ijgj ij xjw rzd qjotx, uzjx
hzfsyt ráx qj gzxht rjstx qj mfqqt.

-Xns éq jxyfwíf -wjxutsinó jq izvzj-, xjñtwf htsijxf, jq vzj st ijxhzgwnjxj
utw azjxywf ujwxtsf azjxywt afqtw, jq hzfq, xns ráx ajw, jx rjwjhjitw ij
ytif qf sfyf ij qf htwyjxíf d ij ytif qf kqtw ij qfx gnjs hwnfifx
hjwjrtsnfx.

D, qjafsyásitqf ij qf rfst, qf qqjaó f fxjsyfw js zsf xnqqf ozsyt f qf
izvzjxf, qf hzfq qf wjhngnó fxnrnxrt hts rzhmt htrjinrnjsyt.

Its Vznotyj hfqqfgf, d Xfshmt fsifgf rzjwyt utw ajw jq wtxywt ij qf
Ywnkfqin d ij fqlzsf ij xzx rzhmfx izjñfx, ujwt st kzj utxngqj mfxyf vzj
jqqfx ij xz lwfit d atqzsyfi xj ijxhzgwnjwts.

Xtxjlfitx ytitx d uzjxytx js xnqjshnt, jxyfgfs jxujwfsit vznés qj mfgíf ij
wtrujw, d kzj qf izjñf Itqtwnif hts jxyfx ufqfgwfx:

-Htsknfif jxytd, xjñtw utijwtxíxnrt, mjwrtxíxnrf xjñtwf d inxhwjyíxnrtx
hnwhzsxyfsyjx, vzj mf ij mfqqfw rn hznyíxnrf js azjxywtx afqjwtxíxnrtx
ujhmtx fhtlnrnjsyt st rjstx uqáhnit vzj ljsjwtxt d itqtwtxt, utwvzj jqqf jx
yfq, vzj jx gfxyfsyj f jsyjwsjhjw qtx ráwrtqjx, d f fgqfsifw qtx infrfsyjx,
d f rtqnknhfw qtx fhjwtx ij qtx ráx jsizwjhnitx htwfetsjx ijq rzsit; ujwt,
fsyjx vzj xfqlf f qf uqfef ij azjxywtx tíitx, utw st ijhnw twjofx, vznxnjwf
vzj rj mnhnjwfs xfgnitwf xn jxyá js jxyj lwjrnt, htwwt d htrufñíf jq
fhjsiwfiíxnrt hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmíxnrf d xz jxhzijwíxnrt
Ufsef.

-Jq Ufsef -fsyjx vzj tywt wjxutsinjxj, inot Xfshmt- fvzí jxyf, d jq its
Vznotyíxnrt fxnrnxrt; d fxí, utiwénx, itqtwtxíxnrf izjñíxnrf, ijhnw qt vzj
vznxnjwniíxnrnx, vzj ytitx jxyfrtx uwtsytx d fufwjofiíxnrtx f xjw azjxywtx
xjwanitwíxnrtx.

Js jxyt xj qjafsyó its Vznotyj, d, jshfrnsfsit xzx wfetsjx f qf Itqtwnif
izjñf, inot:

-Xn azjxywfx hznyfx, fslzxynfif xjñtwf, xj uzjijs uwtrjyjw fqlzsf jxujwfsef
ij wjrjint utw fqlús afqtw t kzjwefx ij fqlús fsifsyj hfgfqqjwt, fvzí jxyás
qfx rífx, vzj, fzsvzj kqfhfx d gwjajx, ytifx xj jruqjfwás js azjxywt
xjwanhnt. Dt xtd its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, hzdt fxzruyt jx fhzinw f ytif
xzjwyj ij rjsjxyjwtxtx, d, xnjsit jxyt fxí, htrt qt jx, st mfgénx rjsjxyjw,
xjñtwf, hfuyfw gjsjatqjshnfx sn gzxhfw uwjárgzqtx, xnst, f qf qqfsf d xns
wtijtx, ijhnw azjxywtx rfqjx, vzj tíitx tx jxhzhmfs vzj xfgwás, xn st
wjrjinfwqtx, itqjwxj ijqqtx.

Tdjsit qt hzfq, qf Itqtwnif izjñf mnet xjñfq ij vzjwjw fwwtofwxj f qtx unjx
ij its Vznotyj, d fzs xj fwwtoó, d, uzlsfsit utw fgwfeáwxjqtx, ijhíf:

-Fsyj jxytx unjx d unjwsfx rj fwwtot, ¡tm hfgfqqjwt nsanhyt!, utw xjw qtx
vzj xts gfxfx d htqzsfx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf; jxytx unjx vznjwt gjxfw,
ij hzdtx ufxtx ujsij d hzjqlf ytit jq wjrjint ij rn ijxlwfhnf, ¡tm afqjwtxt
fsifsyj, hzdfx ajwifijwfx kfefñfx ijofs fywáx d jxhzwjhjs qfx kfgzqtxfx ij
qtx Frfinxjx, Jxuqfsinfsjx d Gjqnfsnxjx!

D, ijofsit f its Vznotyj, xj atqanó f Xfshmt Ufsef, d, fxnésitqj ij qfx
rfstx, qj inot:

-¡Tm yú, jq ráx qjfq jxhzijwt vzj ofráx xnwanó f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj js qtx
uwjxjsyjx sn js qtx ufxfitx xnlqtx, ráx qzjslt js gtsifi vzj qf gfwgf ij
Ywnkfqiís, rn fhtrufñfitw, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj!, gnjs uzjijx uwjhnfwyj vzj js
xjwanw fq lwfs its Vznotyj xnwajx js hnkwf f ytif qf hfyjwaf ij hfgfqqjwtx
vzj mfs ywfyfit qfx fwrfx js jq rzsit. Htsoúwtyj, utw qt vzj ijgjx f yz
gtsifi knijqíxnrf, rj xjfx gzjs nsyjwhjxtw hts yz izjñt, ufwf vzj qzjlt
kfatwjehf f jxyf mzrnqíxnrf d ijxinhmfiíxnrf htsijxf.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Ij vzj xjf rn gtsifi, xjñtwíf ríf, yfs qfwlf d lwfsij htrt qf gfwgf ij
azjxywt jxhzijwt, f rí rj mfhj rzd utht fq hfxt; gfwgfif d hts gnltyjx
yjslf dt rn fqrf hzfsit ijxyf anif afdf, vzj jx qt vzj nrutwyf, vzj ij qfx
gfwgfx ij fhá utht t sfif rj hzwt; ujwt, xns jxfx xthfqnñfx sn uqjlfwnfx,
dt wtlfwé f rn frt, vzj xé vzj rj vznjwj gnjs, d ráx fltwf vzj rj mf
rjsjxyjw ufwf hnjwyt sjlthnt, vzj kfatwjehf d fdzij f azjxf rjwhji js ytit
qt vzj uzinjwj. Azjxf rjwhji ijxjrgfúqj xz hznyf d hzésyjstxqf, d ijoj
mfhjw, vzj ytitx stx jsyjsijwjrtx.

Wjajsyfgfs ij wnxf hts jxyfx htxfx qtx izvzjx, htrt fvzjqqtx vzj mfgífs
ytrfit jq uzqxt f qf yfq fajsyzwf, d fqfgfgfs jsywj xí qf flzijef d
inxnrzqfhnós ij qf Ywnkfqin, qf hzfq, atqanésitxj f xjsyfw, inot:

-«Ijq kfrtxt wjnst ij Hfsifdf, vzj hfj jsywj qf lwfs Ywfutgfsf d jq rfw ijq
Xzw, itx qjlzfx ráx fqqá ijq hfgt Htrtwís, kzj xjñtwf qf wjnsf itñf
Rflzshnf, anzif ijq wjd Fwhmnunjqf, xz xjñtw d rfwnit, ij hzdt rfywnrtsnt
yzanjwts d uwthwjfwts f qf nskfsyf Fsytstrfxnf, mjwjijwf ijq wjnst, qf hzfq
inhmf nskfsyf Fsytstrfxnf xj hwnó d hwjhnó ijgfot ij rn yzyjqf d ithywnsf,
utw xjw dt qf ráx fsynlzf d qf ráx uwnshnufq izjñf ij xz rfiwj. Xzhjinó,
uzjx, vzj, djsit iífx d ansnjsit iífx, qf snñf Fsytstrfxnf qqjló f jifi ij
hfytwhj fñtx, hts yfs lwfs ujwkjhnós ij mjwrtxzwf, vzj st qf uzit xzgnw ráx
ij uzsyt qf sfyzwfqjef. ¡Uzjx inlfrtx fltwf vzj qf inxhwjhnós jwf rthtxf!
Fxí jwf inxhwjyf htrt gjqqf, d jwf qf ráx gjqqf ijq rzsit, d qt jx, xn df
qtx mfitx nsanintxtx d qfx ufwhfx jsizwjhnifx st qf mfs htwyfit qf jxyfrgwj
ij qf anif. Ujwt st mfgwás, vzj st mfs ij ujwrnynw qtx hnjqtx vzj xj mflf
yfsyt rfq f qf ynjwwf htrt xjwíf qqjafwxj js flwfe jq wfhnrt ijq ráx
mjwrtxt ajizñt ijq xzjqt. Ij jxyf mjwrtxzwf, d st htrt xj ijgj jshfwjhnif
ij rn ytwuj qjslzf, xj jsfrtwó zs súrjwt nsknsnyt ij uwíshnujx, fxí
sfyzwfqjx htrt jxywfsojwtx, jsywj qtx hzfqjx txó qjafsyfw qtx ujsxfrnjsytx
fq hnjqt ij yfsyf gjqqjef zs hfgfqqjwt ufwynhzqfw vzj js qf htwyj jxyfgf,
htsknfit js xz rthjifi d js xz gnefwwíf, d js xzx rzhmfx mfgnqnifijx d
lwfhnfx, d kfhnqnifi d kjqnhnifi ij nsljsnt; utwvzj mflt xfgjw f azjxywfx
lwfsijefx, xn st qt ynjsjs utw jstot, vzj ythfgf zsf lznyfwwf vzj qf mfhíf
mfgqfw, d ráx vzj jwf utjyf d lwfs gfnqfwís, d xfgíf mfhjw zsf ofzqf ij
uáofwtx, vzj xtqfrjsyj f mfhjwqfx uzinjwf lfsfw qf anif hzfsit xj anjwf js
jxywjrf sjhjxnifi, vzj ytifx jxyfx ufwyjx d lwfhnfx xts gfxyfsyjx f
ijwwngfw zsf rtsyfñf, st vzj zsf ijqnhfif itshjqqf. Ujwt ytif xz ljsynqjef
d gzjs itsfnwj d ytifx xzx lwfhnfx d mfgnqnifijx kzjwfs uthf t snslzsf
ufwyj ufwf wjsinw qf ktwyfqjef ij rn snñf, xn jq qfiwós ijxzjqqfhfwfx st
zxfwf ijq wjrjint ij wjsinwrj f rí uwnrjwt. Uwnrjwt vznxt jq rfqfsiwís d
ijxfqrfit aflfrzsit lwfsojfwrj qf atqzsyfi d htmjhmfwrj jq lzxyt, ufwf vzj
dt, rfq fqhfnij, qj jsywjlfxj qfx qqfajx ij qf ktwyfqjef vzj lzfwifgf. Js
wjxtqzhnós: éq rj fizqó jq jsyjsinrnjsyt d rj wnsinó qf atqzsyfi hts st xé
vzé inojx d gwnshtx vzj rj int, ujwt qt vzj ráx rj mnet utxywfw d ifw
htsrnlt utw jq xzjqt kzjwts zsfx htuqfx vzj qj tí hfsyfw zsf sthmj ijxij
zsf wjof vzj hfíf f zsf hfqqjozjqf itsij éq jxyfgf, vzj, xn rfq st rj
fhzjwit, ijhífs:

   Ij qf izqhj rn jsjrnlf
   sfhj zs rfq vzj fq fqrf mnjwj,
   d, utw ráx ytwrjsyt, vznjwj
   vzj xj xnjsyf d st xj inlf.

Ufwjhnórj qf ywtaf ij ujwqfx, d xz ate ij fqrígfw, d ijxuzéx fhá, inlt,
ijxij jsytshjx, anjsit jq rfq js vzj hfí utw jxytx d tywtx xjrjofsyjx
ajwxtx, mj htsxnijwfit vzj ij qfx gzjsfx d htshjwyfifx wjuúgqnhfx xj mfgífs
ij ijxyjwwfw qtx utjyfx, htrt fhtsxjofgf Uqfyós, f qt rjstx, qtx qfxhnatx,
utwvzj jxhwngjs zsfx htuqfx, st htrt qfx ijq rfwvzéx ij Rfsyzf, vzj
jsywjynjsjs d mfhjs qqtwfw qtx snñtx d f qfx rzojwjx, xnst zsfx flzijefx
vzj, f rtit ij gqfsifx jxunsfx, tx fywfanjxfs jq fqrf, d htrt wfdtx tx
mnjwjs js jqqf, ijofsit xfst jq ajxynit. D tywf aje hfsyó:

   Ajs, rzjwyj, yfs jxhtsinif
   vzj st yj xnjsyf ajsnw,
   utwvzj jq uqfhjw ijq rtwnw
   st rj ytwsj f ifw qf anif.

D ijxyj ofje tywfx htuqnyfx d jxywfrgtyjx, vzj hfsyfitx jshfsyfs d jxhwnytx
xzxujsijs. Uzjx, ¿vzé hzfsit xj mzrnqqfs f htrutsjw zs lésjwt ij ajwxt vzj
js Hfsifdf xj zxfgf jsytshjx, f vznjs jqqtx qqfrfgfs xjlzninqqfx? Fqqí jwf
jq gwnshfw ij qfx fqrfx, jq wjytefw ij qf wnxf, jq ijxfxtxnjlt ij qtx
hzjwutx d, knsfqrjsyj, jq fetlzj ij ytitx qtx xjsynitx. D fxí, inlt,
xjñtwjx rítx, vzj qtx yfqjx ywtafitwjx hts ozxyt yíyzqt qtx ijgífs
ijxyjwwfw f qfx nxqfx ij qtx Qflfwytx. Ujwt st ynjsjs jqqtx qf hzquf, xnst
qtx xnruqjx vzj qtx fqfgfs d qfx gtgfx vzj qtx hwjjs; d xn dt kzjwf qf
gzjsf izjñf vzj ijgíf, st rj mfgífs ij rtajw xzx ywfxsthmfitx htshjuytx, sn
mfgíf ij hwjjw xjw ajwifi fvzjq ijhnw: "Anat rzwnjsit, fwit js jq djqt,
ynjrgqt js jq kzjlt, jxujwt xns jxujwfsef, uáwytrj d vzéitrj", hts tywtx
nrutxngqjx ijxyf wfqjf, ij vzj jxyás xzx jxhwnytx qqjstx. Uzjx, ¿vzé hzfsit
uwtrjyjs jq késnc ij Fwfgnf, qf htwtsf ij Fwninfsf, qtx hfgfqqtx ijq Xtq,
ijq Xzw qfx ujwqfx, ij Yígfw jq twt d ij Ufshfdf jq gáqxfrt? Fvzí jx itsij
jqqtx fqfwlfs ráx qf uqzrf, htrt qjx hzjxyf utht uwtrjyjw qt vzj ofráx
unjsxfs sn uzjijs hzruqnw. Ujwt, ¿iósij rj inanjwyt? ¡Fd ij rí, ijxinhmfif!
¿Vzé qthzwf t vzé ijxfynst rj qqjaf f htsyfw qfx fojsfx kfqyfx, yjsnjsit
yfsyt vzj ijhnw ij qfx rífx? ¡Fd ij rí, tywf aje, xns ajsyzwf!, vzj st rj
wnsinjwts qtx ajwxtx, xnst rn xnruqnhnifi; st rj fgqfsifwts qfx rúxnhfx,
xnst rn qnanfsifi: rn rzhmf nlstwfshnf d rn utht fiajwynrnjsyt fgwnjwts jq
hfrnst d ijxjrgfwfefwts qf xjsif f qtx ufxtx ij its Hqfanot, vzj éxyj jx jq
strgwj ijq wjkjwnit hfgfqqjwt; d fxí, xnjsit dt qf rjinfsjwf, éq xj mfqqó
zsf d rzd rzhmfx ajhjx js qf jxyfshnf ij qf utw rí, d st utw éq, jslfñfif
Fsytstrfxnf, ijgfot ijq yíyzqt ij ajwifijwt jxutxt; vzj, fzsvzj ujhfitwf,
st htsxnsynjwf vzj xns xjw xz rfwnit qf qqjlfwf f qf anwf ij qf xzjqf ij
xzx efufynqqfx. ¡St, st, jxt st: jq rfywnrtsnt mf ij nw fijqfsyj js
hzfqvznjw sjlthnt ijxytx vzj utw rí xj ywfyfwj! Xtqfrjsyj mzgt zs ifñt js
jxyj sjlthnt, vzj kzj jq ij qf ijxnlzfqifi, utw xjw its Hqfanot zs
hfgfqqjwt ufwynhzqfw, d qf nskfsyf Fsytstrfxnf mjwjijwf, htrt df mj inhmt,
ijq wjnst. Fqlzstx iífx jxyzat jshzgnjwyf d xtqfufif js qf xflfhnifi ij rn
wjhfyt jxyf rfwfñf, mfxyf vzj rj ufwjhnó vzj qf ngf ijxhzgwnjsit f ráx
fsifw st xé vzé mnshmfeós ijq anjsywj ij Fsytstrfxnf, hzdt yjrtw stx mnet
jsywfw js gzwjt f qtx ywjx, d xfqnó iéq vzj, fsyjx vzj xj xfqnjxj f qze jq
rfq wjhfit, its Hqfanot uninjxj fsyj jq anhfwnt utw xz rzojw f Fsytstrfxnf,
js kj ij zsf héizqf vzj ij xjw xz jxutxf qf nskfsyf qj mfgíf mjhmt, styfif
utw rn nsljsnt, hts yfsyf kzjwef, vzj qfx ij Xfsxós st uzinjwfs wtrujwqf.
Mnhnéwtsxj qfx inqnljshnfx, ant jq anhfwnt qf héizqf, ytró jq yfq anhfwnt
qf htskjxnós f qf xjñtwf, htskjxó ij uqfst, rfsióqf ijutxnyfw js hfxf ij zs
fqlzfhnq ij htwyj rzd mtswfit...»

F jxyf xfeós, inot Xfshmt:

-Yfrgnés js Hfsifdf mfd fqlzfhnqjx ij htwyj, utjyfx d xjlzninqqfx, utw qt
vzj uzjit ozwfw vzj nrflnst vzj ytit jq rzsit jx zst. Ujwt iéxj azjxf
rjwhji uwnjxf, xjñtwf Ywnkfqin, vzj jx yfwij d df rj rzjwt utw xfgjw jq kns
ijxyf yfs qfwlf mnxytwnf.

-Xí mfwé -wjxutsinó qf htsijxf.





Hfuíyzqt CCCNC. Itsij qf Ywnkfqin uwtxnlzj xz jxyzujsif d rjrtwfgqj
mnxytwnf


Ij hzfqvznjwf ufqfgwf vzj Xfshmt ijhíf, qf izvzjxf lzxyfgf yfsyt htrt xj
ijxjxujwfgf its Vznotyj; d, rfsiásitqj vzj hfqqfxj, qf Itqtwnif uwtxnlznó
inhnjsit:

-«Js kns, fq hfgt ij rzhmfx ijrfsifx d wjxuzjxyfx, htrt qf nskfsyf xj
jxyfgf xnjruwj js xzx ywjhj, xns xfqnw sn afwnfw ij qf uwnrjwf ijhqfwfhnós,
jq anhfwnt xjsyjshnó js kfatw ij its Hqfanot, d xj qf jsywjló utw xz
qjlíynrf jxutxf, ij qt vzj wjhngnó yfsyt jstot qf wjnsf itñf Rflzshnf,
rfiwj ij qf nskfsyf Fsytstrfxnf, vzj ijsywt ij ywjx iífx qf jsyjwwfrtx.»

-Ijgnó ij rtwnw, xns izif -inot Xfshmt.

-¡Hqfwt jxyá! -wjxutsinó Ywnkfqiís-, vzj js Hfsifdf st xj jsynjwwfs qfx
ujwxtsfx anafx, xnst qfx rzjwyfx.

-Df xj mf anxyt, xjñtw jxhzijwt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, jsyjwwfw zs ijxrfdfit
hwjdjsit xjw rzjwyt, d ufwjhífrj f rí vzj jxyfgf qf wjnsf Rflzshnf tgqnlfif
f ijxrfdfwxj fsyjx vzj f rtwnwxj; vzj hts qf anif rzhmfx htxfx xj wjrjinfs,
d st kzj yfs lwfsij jq inxufwfyj ij qf nskfsyf vzj tgqnlfxj f xjsynwqj
yfsyt. Hzfsit xj mzgnjwf hfxfit jxf xjñtwf hts fqlús ufoj xzdt, t hts tywt
hwnfit ij xz hfxf, htrt mfs mjhmt tywfx rzhmfx, xjlús mj tíit ijhnw, kzjwf
jq ifñt xns wjrjint; ujwt jq mfgjwxj hfxfit hts zs hfgfqqjwt yfs
ljsynqmtrgwj d yfs jsyjsinit htrt fvzí stx qj mfs unsyfit, js ajwifi js
ajwifi vzj, fzsvzj kzj sjhjifi, st kzj yfs lwfsij htrt xj unjsxf; utwvzj,
xjlús qfx wjlqfx ij rn xjñtw, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj d st rj ijofwá rjsynw, fxí
htrt xj mfhjs ij qtx mtrgwjx qjywfitx qtx tgnxutx, xj uzjijs mfhjw ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx, d ráx xn xts fsifsyjx, qtx wjdjx d qtx jrujwfitwjx.

-Wfeós ynjsjx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, htrt
yjslf itx ijitx ij ajsyzwf, jxyá js utyjshnf uwtunshzf ij xjw jq rfdtw
xjñtw ijq rzsit. Ujwt, ufxj fijqfsyj qf xjñtwf Itqtwnif, vzj f rí xj rj
ywfxqzhj vzj qj kfqyf utw htsyfw qt frfwlt ijxyf mfxyf fvzí izqhj mnxytwnf.

-D ¡hórt xn vzjif qt frfwlt! -wjxutsinó qf htsijxf-, d yfs frfwlt vzj js xz
htrufwfhnós xts izqhjx qfx yzjwfx d xfgwtxfx qfx fijqkfx. «Rzjwyf, uzjx, qf
wjnsf, d st ijxrfdfif, qf jsyjwwfrtx; d, fujsfx qf hzgwnrtx hts qf ynjwwf
d fujsfx qj inrtx jq úqynrt afqj, hzfsit,

vznx yfqnf kfsit yjrujwjy f qfhmwdrnx?,

uzjxyt xtgwj zs hfgfqqt ij rfijwf, ufwjhnó jshnrf ij qf xjuzqyzwf ij qf
wjnsf jq lnlfsyj Rfqfrgwzst, uwnrt htwrfst ij Rflzshnf, vzj ozsyt hts xjw
hwzjq jwf jshfsyfitw, jq hzfq hts xzx fwyjx, js ajslfsef ij qf rzjwyj ij xz
htwrfsf, d utw hfxynlt ijq fywjanrnjsyt ij its Hqfanot, d utw ijxujhmt ij
qf ijrfxíf ij Fsytstrfxnf, qtx ijoó jshfsyfitx xtgwj qf rjxrf xjuzqyzwf: f
jqqf, htsajwynif js zsf onrnf ij gwtshj, d f éq, js zs jxufsytxt hthtiwnqt
ij zs rjyfq st htsthnit, d jsywj qtx itx jxyá zs ufiwós, fxnrnxrt ij rjyfq,
d js éq jxhwnyfx js qjslzf xnwífhf zsfx qjywfx vzj, mfgnésitxj ijhqfwfit js
qf hfsifdjxhf, d fmtwf js qf hfxyjqqfsf, jshnjwwfs jxyf xjsyjshnf: "St
htgwfwás xz uwnrjwf ktwrf jxytx itx fywjanitx frfsyjx mfxyf vzj jq afqjwtxt
rfshmjlt ajslf htsrnlt f qfx rfstx js xnslzqfw gfyfqqf, vzj ufwf xtqt xz
lwfs afqtw lzfwifs qtx mfitx jxyf szshf anxyf fajsyzwf". Mjhmt jxyt, xfhó
ij qf afnsf zs fshmt d ijxrjxzwfit fqkfsoj, d, fxnésitrj f rí utw qtx
hfgjqqtx, mnet knsyf ij vzjwjw xjlfwrj qf ltqf d htwyfwrj hjwhjs qf hfgjef.
Yzwgérj, ujlóxjrj qf ate f qf lfwlfsyf, vzjié rtmísf js ytit jxywjrt, ujwt,
hts ytit, rj jxktwhé qt ráx vzj uzij, d, hts ate yjrgqfitwf d itqnjsyj, qj
inoj yfsyfx d yfqjx htxfx, vzj qj mnhnjwts xzxujsijw qf jojhzhnós ij yfs
wnlzwtxt hfxynlt. Knsfqrjsyj, mnet ywfjw fsyj xí ytifx qfx izjñfx ij
ufqfhnt, vzj kzjwts jxyfx vzj jxyás uwjxjsyjx, d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw
jcfljwfit szjxywf hzquf d anyzujwfit qfx htsinhntsjx ij qfx izjñfx, xzx
rfqfx rfñfx d ujtwjx ywfefx, d hfwlfsit f ytifx qf hzquf vzj dt xtqf yjsíf,
inot vzj st vzjwíf hts ujsf hfunyfq hfxynlfwstx, xnst hts tywfx ujsfx
inqfyfifx, vzj stx injxjs zsf rzjwyj hnanq d htsynszf; d, js fvzjq rnxrt
rtrjsyt d uzsyt vzj fhfgó ij ijhnw jxyt, xjsynrtx ytifx vzj xj stx fgwífs
qtx utwtx ij qf hfwf, d vzj utw ytif jqqf stx uzsefgfs htrt hts uzsyfx ij
flzofx. Fhzinrtx qzjlt hts qfx rfstx f qtx wtxywtx, d mfqqártstx ij qf
rfsjwf vzj fmtwf ajwénx.»

D qzjlt qf Itqtwnif d qfx ijráx izjñfx fqefwts qtx fsynkfhjx hts vzj
hzgnjwyfx ajsífs, d ijxhzgwnjwts qtx wtxywtx, ytitx utgqfitx ij gfwgfx,
hzáqjx wzgnfx, hzáqjx sjlwfx, hzáqjx gqfshfx d hzáqjx fqgfwwfefifx, ij hzdf
anxyf rtxywfwts vzjifw firnwfitx jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf, ufxrfitx its
Vznotyj d Xfshmt, d fyósnytx ytitx qtx uwjxjsyjx.

D qf Ywnkfqin uwtxnlznó:

-«Ijxyf rfsjwf stx hfxynló fvzjq ktqqós d rfqnsyjshntsfit ij Rfqfrgwzst,
hzgwnjsit qf gqfsizwf d rtwgnije ij szjxywtx wtxywtx hts qf fxujwjef ijxyfx
hjwifx, vzj uqzlznjwf fq hnjqt vzj fsyjx hts xz ijxrjxzwfit fqkfsoj stx
mzgnjwf ijwwngfit qfx yjxyfx, vzj st vzj stx fxtrgwfwf qf qze ij szjxywfx
hfwfx hts jxyf gtwwf vzj stx hzgwj; utwvzj xn jsywfrtx js hzjsyf, xjñtwjx
rítx (d jxyt vzj atd f ijhnw fltwf qt vznxnjwf ijhnw mjhmtx rnx totx
kzjsyjx, ujwt qf htsxnijwfhnós ij szjxywf ijxlwfhnf, d qtx rfwjx vzj mfxyf
fvzí mfs qqtanit, qtx ynjsjs xns mzrtw d xjhtx htrt fwnxyfx, d fxí, qt inwé
xns qálwnrfx), inlt, uzjx, vzj ¿fiósij utiwá nw zsf izjñf hts gfwgfx? ¿Vzé
ufiwj t vzé rfiwj xj itqjwá ijqqf? ¿Vznés qf ifwá fdzif? Uzjx, fzs hzfsit
ynjsj qf yje qnxf d jq wtxywt rfwynwnefit hts rnq xzjwyjx ij rjsozwojx d
rzifx, fujsfx mfqqf vznjs gnjs qf vznjwf, ¿vzé mfwá hzfsit ijxhzgwf mjhmt
zs gtxvzj xz wtxywt? ¡Tm izjñfx d htrufñjwfx rífx, js ijxinhmfit uzsyt
sfhnrtx, js mtwf rjslzfif szjxywtx ufiwjx stx jsljsiwfwts!»

D, inhnjsit jxyt, int rzjxywfx ij ijxrfdfwxj.





Hfuíyzqt CQ. Ij htxfx vzj fyfñjs d ythfs f jxyf fajsyzwf d f jxyf
rjrtwfgqj mnxytwnf


Wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj, ytitx qtx vzj lzxyfs ij xjrjofsyjx mnxytwnfx htrt
éxyf ijgjs ij rtxywfwxj flwfijhnitx f Hnij Mfrjyj, xz fzytw uwnrjwt, utw qf
hzwntxnifi vzj yzat js htsyfwstx qfx xjrísnrfx ijqqf, xns ijofw htxf, utw
rjszif vzj kzjxj, vzj st qf xfhfxj f qze inxynsyfrjsyj: unsyf qtx
ujsxfrnjsytx, ijxhzgwj qfx nrflnsfhntsjx, wjxutsij f qfx yáhnyfx, fhqfwf
qfx izifx, wjxzjqaj qtx fwlzrjsytx; knsfqrjsyj, qtx áytrtx ijq ráx hzwntxt
ijxjt rfsnknjxyf. ¡Tm fzytw hjqjgéwwnrt! ¡Tm its Vznotyj inhmtxt! ¡Tm
Izqhnsjf kfrtxf! ¡Tm Xfshmt Ufsef lwfhntxt! Ytitx ozsytx d hfif zst ij utw
xí anaánx xnlqtx nsknsnytx, ufwf lzxyt d ljsjwfq ufxfynjrut ij qtx
ananjsyjx.

Inhj, uzjx, qf mnxytwnf vzj, fxí htrt Xfshmt ant ijxrfdfif f qf Itqtwnif,
inot:

-Utw qf kj ij mtrgwj ij gnjs, ozwt, d utw jq xnlqt ij ytitx rnx ufxfitx qtx
Ufsefx, vzj ofráx mj tíit sn anxyt, sn rn frt rj mf htsyfit, sn js xz
ujsxfrnjsyt mf hfgnit, xjrjofsyj fajsyzwf htrt éxyf. Aáqlfyj rnq xfyfsfxjx,
utw st rfqijhnwyj utw jshfsyfitw d lnlfsyj, Rfqfrgwzst; d ¿st mfqqfxyj tywt
lésjwt ij hfxynlt vzj ifw f jxyfx ujhfitwfx xnst jq ij gfwgfwqfx? ¿Hórt d
st kzjwf rjotw, d f jqqfx qjx jxyzanjwf ráx f hzjsyt, vznyfwqjx qf rnyfi ij
qfx sfwnhjx ij rjint fwwngf, fzsvzj mfgqfwfs lfsltxt, vzj st utsjwqjx
gfwgfx? Futxyfwé dt vzj st ynjsjs mfhnjsif ufwf uflfw f vznjs qfx wfuj.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi, xjñtw -wjxutsinó zsf ij qfx ithj-, vzj st yjsjrtx
mfhnjsif ufwf rtsifwstx; d fxí, mjrtx ytrfit fqlzsfx ij stxtywfx utw
wjrjint fmtwwfynat ij zxfw ij zstx ujltyjx t ufwhmjx ujlfotxtx, d
fuqnhásitqtx f qtx wtxywtx, d ynwfsit ij ltquj, vzjifrtx wfxfx d qnxfx htrt
ktsit ij rtwyjwt ij unjiwf; vzj, uzjxyt vzj mfd js Hfsifdf rzojwjx vzj
fsifs ij hfxf js hfxf f vznyfw jq ajqqt d f uzqnw qfx hjofx d mfhjw tywtx
rjsozwojx ythfsyjx f rzojwjx, stxtywfx qfx izjñfx ij rn xjñtwf utw ofráx
vznxnrtx firnynwqfx, utwvzj qfx ráx tqnxhfs f yjwhjwfx, mfgnjsit ijofit ij
xjw uwnrfx; d xn utw jq xjñtw its Vznotyj st xtrtx wjrjinfifx, hts gfwgfx
stx qqjafwás f qf xjuzqyzwf.

-Dt rj ujqfwíf qfx rífx -inot its Vznotyj- js ynjwwf ij rtwtx, xn st
wjrjinfxj qfx azjxywfx.

F jxyj uzsyt, atqanó ij xz ijxrfdt qf Ywnkfqin d inot:

-Jq wjynsyís ijxf uwtrjxf, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, js rjint ij rn ijxrfdt qqjló
f rnx tíitx, d mf xnit ufwyj ufwf vzj dt iéq azjqaf d htgwj ytitx rnx
xjsynitx; d fxí, ij szjat tx xzuqnht, fsifsyj íshqnyt d xjñtw nsitrfgqj,
azjxywf lwfhntxf uwtrjxf xj htsanjwyf js tgwf.

-Utw rí st vzjifwá -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: aji, xjñtwf, vzé jx qt vzj
yjslt ij mfhjw, vzj jq ásnrt jxyá rzd uwtsyt ufwf xjwanwtx.

-Jx jq hfxt -wjxutsinó qf Itqtwnif -vzj ijxij fvzí fq wjnst ij Hfsifdf, xn
xj af utw ynjwwf, mfd hnsht rnq qjlzfx, itx ráx f rjstx; ujwt xn xj af utw
jq fnwj d utw qf qísjf wjhyf, mfd ywjx rnq d ithnjsyfx d ajnsyj d xnjyj. Jx
yfrgnés ij xfgjw vzj Rfqfrgwzst rj inot vzj hzfsit qf xzjwyj rj ijufwfxj fq
hfgfqqjwt szjxywt qngjwyfitw, vzj éq qj jsanfwíf zsf hfgfqlfizwf mfwyt
rjotw d hts rjstx rfqnhnfx vzj qfx vzj xts ij wjytwst, utwvzj mf ij xjw
fvzjq rjxrt hfgfqqt ij rfijwf xtgwj vznjs qqjaó jq afqjwtxt Unjwwjx wtgfif
f qf qnsif Rflfqtsf, jq hzfq hfgfqqt xj wnlj utw zsf hqfanof vzj ynjsj js
qf kwjsyj, vzj qj xnwaj ij kwjst, d azjqf utw jq fnwj hts yfsyf qnljwjef
vzj ufwjhj vzj qtx rjxrtx infgqtx qj qqjafs. Jxyj yfq hfgfqqt, xjlús jx
ywfinhnós fsynlzf, kzj htruzjxyt utw fvzjq xfgnt Rjwqís; uwjxyóxjqj f
Unjwwjx, vzj jwf xz frnlt, hts jq hzfq mnet lwfsijx anfojx, d wtgó, htrt xj
mf inhmt, f qf qnsif Rflfqtsf, qqjaásitqf f qfx fshfx utw jq fnwj, ijofsit
jrgtgfitx f hzfsytx ijxij qf ynjwwf qtx rnwfgfs; d st qj uwjxyfgf xnst f
vznjs éq vzjwíf, t rjotw xj qt uflfgf; d ijxij jq lwfs Unjwwjx mfxyf
fmtwf st xfgjrtx vzj mfdf xzgnit fqlzst js éq. Ij fqqí qj mf xfhfit
Rfqfrgwzst hts xzx fwyjx, d qj ynjsj js xz utijw, d xj xnwaj iéq js xzx
anfojx, vzj qtx mfhj utw rtrjsytx, utw inajwxfx ufwyjx ijq rzsit, d mtd
jxyá fvzí d rfñfsf js Kwfshnf d tywt iíf js Utytxí; d jx qt gzjst vzj jq
yfq hfgfqqt sn htrj, sn izjwrj sn lfxyf mjwwfizwfx, d qqjaf zs utwyfsyj utw
qtx fnwjx, xns yjsjw fqfx, vzj jq vzj qqjaf jshnrf uzjij qqjafw zsf yfef
qqjsf ij flzf js qf rfst xns vzj xj qj ijwwfrj ltyf, xjlús hfrnsf qqfst d
wjutxfit; utw qt hzfq qf qnsif Rflfqtsf xj mtqlfgf rzhmt ij fsifw hfgfqqjwf
js éq.

F jxyt inot Xfshmt:

-Ufwf fsifw wjutxfit d qqfst, rn wzhnt, uzjxyt vzj st fsif utw qtx fnwjx;
ujwt utw qf ynjwwf, dt qj hzynwé hts hzfsytx utwyfsyjx mfd js jq rzsit.

Wnéwtsxj ytitx, d qf Itqtwnif uwtxnlznó:

-D jxyj yfq hfgfqqt, xn jx vzj Rfqfrgwzst vznjwj ifw kns f szjxywf
ijxlwfhnf, fsyjx vzj xjf rjinf mtwf jsywfif qf sthmj, jxyfwá js szjxywf
uwjxjshnf, utwvzj éq rj xnlsnknhó vzj qf xjñfq vzj rj ifwíf utw itsij dt
jsyjsinjxj vzj mfgíf mfqqfit jq hfgfqqjwt vzj gzxhfgf, xjwíf jsanfwrj jq
hfgfqqt, itsij kzjxj hts htrtinifi d uwjxyjef.

-D ¿hzásytx hfgjs js jxj hfgfqqt? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

Qf Itqtwnif wjxutsinó:

-Itx ujwxtsfx: qf zsf js qf xnqqf d qf tywf js qfx fshfx; d, utw qf rfdtw
ufwyj, jxyfx yfqjx itx ujwxtsfx xts hfgfqqjwt d jxhzijwt, hzfsit kfqyf
fqlzsf wtgfif itshjqqf.

-Vzjwwíf dt xfgjw, xjñtwf Itqtwnif -inot Xfshmt-, vzé strgwj ynjsj jxj
hfgfqqt.

-Jq strgwj -wjxutsinó qf Itqtwnif- st jx htrt jq hfgfqqt ij Gjqtwtktsyj,
vzj xj qqfrfgf Ujlfxt, sn htrt jq ijq Rflst Fqjofsiwt, qqfrfit Gzhékfqt, sn
htrt jq ijq kzwntxt Twqfsit, hzdt strgwj kzj Gwnqqfitwt, sn rjstx Gfdfwyj,
vzj kzj jq ij Wjnsfqitx ij Rtsyfqgás, sn Kwtsynst, htrt jq ij Wzljwt, sn
Gttyjx sn Ujwnytf, htrt inhjs vzj xj qqfrfs qtx ijq Xtq, sn yfrutht xj
qqfrf Twjqnf, htrt jq hfgfqqt js vzj jq ijxinhmfit Wtiwnlt, úqynrt wjd ij
qtx ltitx, jsywó js qf gfyfqqf itsij ujwinó qf anif d jq wjnst.

-Dt futxyfwé -inot Xfshmt- vzj, uzjx st qj mfs ifit snslzst ijxtx kfrtxtx
strgwjx ij hfgfqqtx yfs htsthnitx, vzj yfrutht qj mfgwás ifit jq ij rn frt,
Wthnsfsyj, vzj js xjw uwtunt jchjij f ytitx qtx vzj xj mfs strgwfit.

-Fxí jx -wjxutsinó qf gfwgfif htsijxf-, ujwt ytifaíf qj hzfiwf rzhmt,
utwvzj xj qqfrf Hqfanqjñt jq Fqíljwt, hzdt strgwj htsanjsj hts jq xjw ij
qjñt, d hts qf hqfanof vzj ywfj js qf kwjsyj, d hts qf qnljwjef hts vzj
hfrnsf; d fxí, js hzfsyt fq strgwj, gnjs uzjij htrujynw hts jq kfrtxt
Wthnsfsyj.

-St rj ijxhtsyjsyf jq strgwj -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, ujwt ¿hts vzé kwjst t hts
vzé oávznrf xj ltgnjwsf?

-Df mj inhmt -wjxutsinó qf Ywnkfqin- vzj hts qf hqfanof, vzj, atqanésitqf f
zsf ufwyj t f tywf, jq hfgfqqjwt vzj af jshnrf qj mfhj hfrnsfw htrt vznjwj,
t df utw qtx fnwjx, t df wfxywjfsit d hfxn gfwwnjsit qf ynjwwf, t utw jq
rjint, vzj jx jq vzj xj gzxhf d xj mf ij yjsjw js ytifx qfx fhhntsjx gnjs
twijsfifx.

-Df qt vzjwwíf ajw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt ujsxfw vzj yjslt ij xzgnw js
éq, sn js qf xnqqf sn js qfx fshfx, jx ujinw ujwfx fq tqrt. ¡Gzjst jx vzj
fujsfx uzjit yjsjwrj js rn wzhnt, d xtgwj zs fqgfwif ráx gqfsif vzj qf
rjxrf xjif, d vzjwwífs fmtwf vzj rj yzanjxj js zsfx fshfx ij yfgqf, xns
htoís sn fqrtmfif fqlzsf! Ufwinje, dt st rj unjsxt rtqjw utw vznyfw qfx
gfwgfx f sfinj: hfif hzfq xj wfuj htrt ráx qj ansnjwj f hzjsyt, vzj dt st
unjsxt fhtrufñfw f rn xjñtw js yfs qfwlt anfoj. Hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt st ijgt
ij mfhjw fq hfxt ufwf jq wfufrnjsyt ijxyfx gfwgfx htrt qt xtd ufwf jq
ijxjshfsyt ij rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf.

-Xí xtnx, frnlt -wjxutsinó qf Ywnkfqin-, d yfsyt, vzj, xns azjxywf
uwjxjshnf, jsynjsit vzj st mfwjrtx sfif.

-¡Fvzí ijq wjd! -inot Xfshmt-: ¿vzé ynjsjs vzj ajw qtx jxhzijwtx hts qfx
fajsyzwfx ij xzx xjñtwjx? ¿Mfsxj ij qqjafw jqqtx qf kfrf ij qfx vzj fhfgfs,
d mjrtx ij qqjafw stxtywtx jq ywfgfot? ¡Hzjwut ij rí! Fzs xn inojxjs qtx
mnxytwnfitwjx: "Jq yfq hfgfqqjwt fhfgó qf yfq d yfq fajsyzwf, ujwt hts
fdzif ij kzqfst, xz jxhzijwt, xns jq hzfq kzjwf nrutxngqj jq fhfgfwqf".
Ujwt, ¡vzj jxhwngfs f xjhfx: "Its Ufwfqnutrjsós ij qfx Ywjx Jxywjqqfx fhfgó
qf fajsyzwf ij qtx xjnx ajxynlqtx", xns strgwfw qf ujwxtsf ij xz
jxhzijwt, vzj xj mfqqó uwjxjsyj f ytit, htrt xn st kzjwf js jq rzsit!
Fmtwf, xjñtwjx, azjqat f ijhnw vzj rn xjñtw xj uzjij nw xtqt, d gzjs
uwtajhmt qj mflf, vzj dt rj vzjifwé fvzí, js htrufñíf ij qf izvzjxf rn
xjñtwf, d utiwíf xjw vzj hzfsit atqanjxj mfqqfxj rjotwfif qf hfzxf ij qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf js yjwhnt d vznsyt; utwvzj unjsxt, js qtx wfytx thntxtx d
ijxthzufitx, ifwrj zsf yfsif ij fetyjx vzj st rj qf hzgwf ujqt.

-Hts ytit jxt, qj mfgénx ij fhtrufñfw xn kzjwj sjhjxfwnt, gzjs Xfshmt,
utwvzj tx qt wtlfwás gzjstx; vzj st mfs ij vzjifw utw azjxywt nsúynq yjrtw
yfs utgqfitx qtx wtxywtx ijxyfx xjñtwfx; vzj, hnjwyt, xjwíf rfq hfxt.

-¡Fvzí ijq wjd tywf aje! -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. Hzfsit jxyf hfwnifi xj mnhnjwf
utw fqlzsfx itshjqqfx wjhtlnifx, t utw fqlzsfx snñfx ij qf ithywnsf,
uzinjwf jq mtrgwj fajsyzwfwxj f hzfqvznjw ywfgfot, ujwt vzj qt xzkwf utw
vznyfw qfx gfwgfx f izjñfx, ¡rfq fñt! Rfx vzj qfx anjxj dt f ytifx hts
gfwgfx, ijxij qf rfdtw mfxyf qf rjstw, d ij qf ráx rjqnsiwtxf mfxyf qf ráx
wjuzqlfif.

-Rfq jxyánx hts qfx izjñfx, Xfshmt frnlt -inot qf izvzjxf-: rzhmt tx afnx
ywfx qf tunsnós ijq gtynhfwnt ytqjifst. Uzjx f kj vzj st yjsénx wfeós; vzj
izjñfx mfd js rn hfxf vzj uzjijs xjw jojruqt ij izjñfx, vzj fvzí jxyá rn
itñf Wtiwílzje, vzj st rj ijofwá ijhnw tywf htxf.

-Rfx vzj qf inlf azjxywf jchjqjshnf -inot Wtiwílzje-, vzj Intx xfgj qf
ajwifi ij ytit, d gzjsfx t rfqfx, gfwgfifx t qfrunñfx vzj xjfrtx qfx
izjñfx, yfrgnés stx ufwnó szjxywf rfiwj htrt f qfx tywfx rzojwjx; d, uzjx
Intx stx jhmó js jq rzsit, Éq xfgj ufwf vzé, d f xz rnxjwnhtwinf rj fyjslt,
d st f qfx gfwgfx ij sfinj.

-Fmtwf gnjs, xjñtwf Wtiwílzje -inot its Vznotyj-, d xjñtwf Ywnkfqin d
htrufñíf, dt jxujwt js jq hnjqt vzj rnwfwá hts gzjstx totx azjxywfx hznyfx,
vzj Xfshmt mfwá qt vzj dt qj rfsifwj, df ansnjxj Hqfanqjñt d df rj anjxj
hts Rfqfrgwzst; vzj dt xé vzj st mfgwíf sfafof vzj hts ráx kfhnqnifi wfufxj
f azjxywfx rjwhjijx htrt rn jxufif wfufwíf ij qtx mtrgwtx qf hfgjef ij
Rfqfrgwzst; vzj Intx xzkwj f qtx rfqtx, ujwt st ufwf xnjruwj.

-¡Fd! -inot f jxyf xfeós qf Itqtwnif-, hts gjsnlstx totx rnwjs f azjxywf
lwfsijef, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, ytifx qfx jxywjqqfx ij qfx wjlntsjx hjqjxyjx,
j nskzsifs js azjxywt ásnrt ytif uwtxujwnifi d afqjsyíf ufwf xjw jxhzit d
frufwt ijq anyzujwtxt d fgfynit lésjwt izjñjxht, fgtrnsfit ij gtynhfwntx,
rzwrzwfit ij jxhzijwtx d xthfqnñfit ij ufojx; vzj rfq mfdf qf gjqqfhf vzj
js qf kqtw ij xz jifi st xj rjynó uwnrjwt f xjw rtsof vzj f izjñf.
¡Ijxinhmfifx ij stxtywfx qfx izjñfx, vzj, fzsvzj ajslfrtx utw qísjf wjhyf,
ij afwós js afwós, ijq rnxrt Méhytw jq ywtdfst, st ijofwfs ij jhmfwtx zs
atx szjxywfx xjñtwfx, xn ujsxfxjs utw jqqt xjw wjnsfx! ¡Tm lnlfsyj
Rfqfrgwzst, vzj, fzsvzj jwjx jshfsyfitw, jwjx hjwyíxnrt js yzx uwtrjxfx!,
jsaífstx df fq xns ufw Hqfanqjñt, ufwf vzj szjxywf ijxinhmf xj fhfgj, vzj
xn jsywf jq hfqtw d jxyfx szjxywfx gfwgfx izwfs, ¡lzfd ij szjxywf ajsyzwf!

Inot jxyt hts yfsyt xjsynrnjsyt qf Ywnkfqin, vzj xfhó qfx qálwnrfx ij qtx
totx ij ytitx qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx, d fzs fwwfxó qtx ij Xfshmt, d uwtuzxt js
xz htwfeós ij fhtrufñfw f xz xjñtw mfxyf qfx úqynrfx ufwyjx ijq rzsit, xn
jx vzj js jqqt htsxnxynjxj vznyfw qf qfsf ij fvzjqqtx ajsjwfgqjx wtxywtx.





Hfuíyzqt CQN. Ij qf ajsnif ij Hqfanqjñt, hts jq kns ijxyf inqfyfif fajsyzwf


Qqjló js jxyt qf sthmj, d hts jqqf jq uzsyt ijyjwrnsfit js vzj jq kfrtxt
hfgfqqt Hqfanqjñt ansnjxj, hzdf yfwifsef kfynlfgf df f its Vznotyj,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj, uzjx Rfqfrgwzst xj ijyjsíf js jsanfwqj, t vzj éq st jwf
jq hfgfqqjwt ufwf vznjs jxyfgf lzfwifif fvzjqqf fajsyzwf, t vzj Rfqfrgwzst
st txfgf ajsnw hts éq f xnslzqfw gfyfqqf. Ujwt ajnx fvzí hzfsit f ijxmtwf
jsywfwts utw jq ofwiís hzfywt xfqafojx, ajxynitx ytitx ij ajwij djiwf, vzj
xtgwj xzx mtrgwtx ywfífs zs lwfs hfgfqqt ij rfijwf. Uzxnéwtsqj ij unjx js
jq xzjqt, d zst ij qtx xfqafojx inot:

-Xzgf xtgwj jxyf rávznsf jq vzj yzanjwj ásnrt ufwf jqqt.

-Fvzí -inot Xfshmt- dt st xzgt, utwvzj sn yjslt ásnrt sn xtd hfgfqqjwt.

D jq xfqafoj uwtxnlznó inhnjsit:

-D thzuj qfx fshfx jq jxhzijwt, xn jx vzj qt ynjsj, d kíjxj ijq afqjwtxt
Rfqfrgwzst, vzj xn st kzjwj ij xz jxufif, ij snslzsf tywf, sn ij tywf
rfqnhnf, xjwá tkjsinit; d st mfd ráx vzj ytwhjw jxyf hqfanof vzj xtgwj jq
hzjqqt ywfj uzjxyf, vzj éq qtx qqjafwá utw qtx fnwjx fitsij qtx fynjsij
Rfqfrgwzst; ujwt, utwvzj qf fqyjef d xzgqnrnifi ijq hfrnst st qjx hfzxj
aálznitx, xj mfs ij hzgwnw qtx totx mfxyf vzj jq hfgfqqt wjqnshmj, vzj xjwá
xjñfq ij mfgjw ifit kns f xz anfoj.

Jxyt inhmt, ijofsit f Hqfanqjñt, hts ljsynq htsynsjsyj xj atqanjwts utw
itsij mfgífs ajsnit. Qf Itqtwnif, fxí htrt ant fq hfgfqqt, hfxn hts
qálwnrfx inot f its Vznotyj:

-Afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, qfx uwtrjxfx ij Rfqfrgwzst mfs xnit hnjwyfx: jq
hfgfqqt jxyá js hfxf, szjxywfx gfwgfx hwjhjs, d hfif zsf ij stxtywfx d hts
hfif ujqt ijqqfx yj xzuqnhfrtx stx wfujx d yzsifx, uzjx st jxyá js ráx xnst
js vzj xzgfx js éq hts yz jxhzijwt d ijx kjqnhj uwnshnunt f azjxywt szjat
anfoj.

-Jxt mfwé dt, xjñtwf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, ij rzd gzjs lwfit d ij rjotw
yfqfsyj, xns utsjwrj f ytrfw htoís, sn hfqefwrj jxuzjqfx, utw st ijyjsjwrj:
yfsyf jx qf lfsf vzj yjslt ij ajwtx f atx, xjñtwf, d f ytifx jxyfx izjñfx
wfxfx d rtsifx.

-Jxt st mfwé dt -inot Xfshmt-, sn ij rfqt sn ij gzjs yfqfsyj, js snslzsf
rfsjwf; d xn jx vzj jxyj wfufrnjsyt st xj uzjij mfhjw xns vzj dt xzgf f qfx
fshfx, gnjs uzjij gzxhfw rn xjñtw tywt jxhzijwt vzj qj fhtrufñj, d jxyfx
xjñtwfx tywt rtit ij fqnxfwxj qtx wtxywtx; vzj dt st xtd gwzot, ufwf lzxyfw
ij fsifw utw qtx fnwjx. D ¿vzé inwás rnx nsxzqfstx hzfsit xjufs vzj xz
ltgjwsfitw xj fsif ufxjfsit utw qtx anjsytx? D tywf htxf ráx: vzj mfgnjsit
ywjx rnq d yfsyfx qjlzfx ij fvzí f Hfsifdf, xn jq hfgfqqt xj hfsxf t jq
lnlfsyj xj jstof, yfwifwjrtx js ifw qf azjqyf rjinf ithjsf ij fñtx, d df sn
mfgwá ísxzqf sn ísxzqtx js jq rzsit vzj rj htstefs; d, uzjx xj inhj
htrúsrjsyj vzj js qf yfwifsef af jq ujqnlwt, d vzj hzfsit yj injwjs qf
afvznqqf fhzifx hts qf xtlznqqf, ujwiósjsrj qfx gfwgfx ijxyfx xjñtwfx, vzj
gnjs xj jxyá Xfs Ujiwt js Wtrf; vznjwt ijhnw vzj gnjs rj jxytd js jxyf
hfxf, itsij yfsyf rjwhji xj rj mfhj d ij hzdt izjñt yfs lwfs gnjs jxujwt
htrt jx ajwrj ltgjwsfitw.

F qt vzj jq izvzj inot:

-Xfshmt frnlt, qf ísxzqf vzj dt tx mj uwtrjynit st jx rtangqj sn kzlnynaf:
wfíhjx ynjsj yfs mtsifx, jhmfifx js qtx fgnxrtx ij qf ynjwwf, vzj st qf
fwwfshfwás sn rzifwás ij itsij jxyá f ywjx ynwtsjx; d, uzjx atx xfgénx vzj
xé dt vzj st mfd snslzst lésjwt ij tknhnt ijxytx ij rfdtw hfsyíf vzj st xj
lwfsojj hts fqlzsf xzjwyj ij htmjhmt, hzáq ráx, hzáq rjstx, jq vzj dt
vznjwt qqjafw utw jxyj ltgnjwst jx vzj afnx hts azjxywt xjñtw its Vznotyj f
ifw hnrf d hfgt f jxyf rjrtwfgqj fajsyzwf; vzj fmtwf atqaánx xtgwj
Hqfanqjñt hts qf gwjajifi vzj xz qnljwjef uwtrjyj, twf qf htsywfwnf ktwyzsf
tx ywfnlf d azjqaf f unj, mjhmt wtrjwt, ij rjxós js rjxós d ij ajsyf js
ajsyf, xnjruwj vzj atqanéwjijx mfqqfwénx azjxywf ísxzqf itsij qf ijoánx, d
f azjxywtx nsxzqfstx hts jq rjxrt ijxjt ij wjhjgnwtx utw xz ltgjwsfitw vzj
xnjruwj mfs yjsnit, d rn atqzsyfi xjwá qf rjxrf; d st utslánx izif js jxyf
ajwifi, xjñtw Xfshmt, vzj xjwíf mfhjw stytwnt flwfant fq ijxjt vzj ij
xjwanwtx yjslt.

-St ráx, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-: dt xtd zs utgwj jxhzijwt d st uzjit qqjafw f
hzjxyfx yfsyfx htwyjxífx; xzgf rn frt, yáujsrj jxytx totx d jshtrnésijsrj f
Intx, d faíxjsrj xn hzfsit afrtx utw jxfx fqyfsjwífx utiwé jshtrjsifwrj f
Szjxywt Xjñtw t nsathfw qtx ásljqjx vzj rj kfatwjehfs.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Ywnkfqin:

-Xfshmt, gnjs utiénx jshtrjsifwtx f Intx t f vznjs vznxnéwjijx, vzj
Rfqfrgwzst, fzsvzj jx jshfsyfitw, jx hwnxynfst, d mfhj xzx jshfsyfrjsytx
hts rzhmf xflfhnifi d hts rzhmt ynjsyt, xns rjyjwxj hts sfinj.

-¡Jf, uzjx -inot Xfshmt-, Intx rj fdzij d qf Xfsyíxnrf Ywnsnifi ij Lfjyf!

-Ijxij qf rjrtwfgqj fajsyzwf ij qtx gfyfsjx -inot its Vznotyj-, szshf mj
anxyt f Xfshmt hts yfsyt yjrtw htrt fmtwf, d xn dt kzjwf yfs fltwjwt htrt
tywtx, xz uzxnqfsnrnifi rj mnhnjwf fqlzsfx htxvznqqfx js jq ásnrt. Ujwt
qqjlftx fvzí, Xfshmt, vzj hts qnhjshnf ijxytx xjñtwjx tx vznjwt mfgqfw
fufwyj itx ufqfgwfx.

D, fufwyfsit f Xfshmt jsywj zstx áwgtqjx ijq ofwiís d fxnésitqj frgfx qfx
rfstx, qj inot:

-Df ajjx, Xfshmt mjwrfst, jq qfwlt anfoj vzj stx jxujwf, d vzj xfgj Intx
hzásit atqajwjrtx iéq, sn qf htrtinifi d jxufhnt vzj stx ifwás qtx
sjlthntx; fxí, vzjwwíf vzj fmtwf yj wjynwfxjx js yz futxjsyt, htrt vzj afx
f gzxhfw fqlzsf htxf sjhjxfwnf ufwf jq hfrnst, d, js zs ifhf qfx ufofx,
yj injxjx, f gzjsf hzjsyf ij qtx ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx fetyjx f vzj jxyáx
tgqnlfit, xnvznjwf vznsnjsytx, vzj ifitx yj qtx yjsiwáx, vzj jq htrjsefw
qfx htxfx jx yjsjwqfx rjint fhfgfifx.

-¡Ufw Intx -inot Xfshmt-, vzj azjxywf rjwhji ijgj ij xjw rjslzfit! Jxyt jx
htrt fvzjqqt vzj inhjs: "¡js uwnjxf rj ajjx d itshjqqje rj ijrfsifx!"
¿Fmtwf vzj yjslt ij nw xjsyfit js zsf yfgqf wfxf, vznjwj azjxywf rjwhji vzj
rj qfxynrj qfx utxfx? Js ajwifi js ajwifi vzj st ynjsj azjxywf rjwhji
wfeós. Afrtx fmtwf f wfufw jxyfx izjñfx, vzj f qf azjqyf dt qj uwtrjyt f
azjxywf rjwhji, htrt vznjs xtd, ij ifwrj yfsyf uwnjxf f xfqnw ij rn
tgqnlfhnós, vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj htsyjsyj, d st qj inlt ráx.

D its Vznotyj wjxutsinó:

-Uzjx hts jxf uwtrjxf, gzjs Xfshmt, atd htsxtqfit, d hwjt vzj qf hzruqnwáx,
utwvzj, js jkjhyt, fzsvzj ytsyt, jwjx mtrgwj ajwíinht.

-St xtd ajwij, xnst rtwjst -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt fzsvzj kzjwf ij rjehqf,
hzruqnjwf rn ufqfgwf.

D hts jxyt xj atqanjwts f xzgnw js Hqfanqjñt, d fq xzgnw inot its Vznotyj:

-Yfuftx, Xfshmt, d xzgni, Xfshmt, vzj vznjs ij yfs qzjñjx ynjwwfx jsaíf utw
stxtywtx st xjwá ufwf jslfñfwstx, utw qf uthf lqtwnf vzj qj uzjij wjizsifw
ij jslfñfw f vznjs iéq xj kíf; d, uzjxyt vzj ytit xzhjinjxj fq wjaéx ij qt
vzj nrflnst, qf lqtwnf ij mfgjw jruwjsinit jxyf mfefñf st qf utiwá
jxhzwjhjw rfqnhnf fqlzsf.

-Afrtx, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, vzj qfx gfwgfx d qálwnrfx ijxyfx xjñtwfx qfx
yjslt hqfafifx js jq htwfeós, d st htrjwé gthfit vzj gnjs rj xjuf mfxyf
ajwqfx js xz uwnrjwf qnxzwf. Xzgf azjxf rjwhji d yáujxj uwnrjwt, vzj xn dt
yjslt ij nw f qfx fshfx, hqfwt jxyá vzj uwnrjwt xzgj jq ij qf xnqqf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj.

D, xfhfsit zs ufñzjqt ij qf kfqiwnvzjwf, uninó f qf Itqtwnif vzj qj
hzgwnjxj rzd gnjs qtx totx, d, mfgnésitxjqtx hzgnjwyt, xj atqanó f
ijxhzgwnw d inot:

-Xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, dt mj qjíit js Anwlnqnt fvzjqqt ijq Ufqfinós ij
Ywtdf, vzj kzj zs hfgfqqt ij rfijwf vzj qtx lwnjltx uwjxjsyfwts f qf intxf
Ufqfx, jq hzfq ngf uwjñfit ij hfgfqqjwtx fwrfitx, vzj ijxuzéx kzjwts qf
ytyfq wznsf ij Ywtdf; d fxí, xjwá gnjs ajw uwnrjwt qt vzj Hqfanqjñt ywfj js
xz jxyórflt.

-St mfd ufwf vzé -inot qf Itqtwnif-, vzj dt qj kít d xé vzj Rfqfrgwzst st
ynjsj sfif ij rfqnhntxt sn ij ywfnitw; azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj,
xzgf xns ufatw fqlzst, d f rn ifñt xn fqlzst qj xzhjinjwj.

Ufwjhnóqj f its Vznotyj vzj hzfqvznjwf htxf vzj wjuqnhfxj fhjwhf ij xz
xjlzwnifi xjwíf utsjw js ijywnrjsyt xz afqjsyíf; d fxí, xns ráx fqyjwhfw,
xzgnó xtgwj Hqfanqjñt d qj yjsyó qf hqfanof, vzj káhnqrjsyj xj wtijfgf; d,
htrt st yjsíf jxywngtx d qj htqlfgfs qfx unjwsfx, st ufwjhíf xnst knlzwf ij
yfune kqfrjsht unsyfif t yjonif js fqlús wtrfst ywnzskt. Ij rfq yfqfsyj d
utht f utht qqjló f xzgnw Xfshmt, d, fhtrtiásitxj qt rjotw vzj uzit js qfx
fshfx, qfx mfqqó fqlt izwfx d st sfif gqfsifx, d uninó fq izvzj vzj, xn
kzjxj utxngqj, qj fhtrtifxjs ij fqlús htoís t ij fqlzsf fqrtmfif, fzsvzj
kzjxj ijq jxywfit ij xz xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, t ijq qjhmt ij fqlús ufoj,
utwvzj qfx fshfx ij fvzjq hfgfqqt ráx ufwjhífs ij ráwrtq vzj ij qjñt.

F jxyt inot qf Ywnkfqin vzj snslús ofje sn snslús lésjwt ij fitwst xzkwíf
xtgwj xí Hqfanqjñt; vzj qt vzj utiíf mfhjw jwf utsjwxj f rzojwnjlfx, d vzj
fxí st xjsynwíf yfsyt qf izwjef. Míetqt fxí Xfshmt, d, inhnjsit ''f Intx'',
xj ijoó ajsifw qtx totx, d, df ijxuzéx ij ajsifitx, xj atqanó f ijxhzgwnw,
d, rnwfsit f ytitx qtx ijq ofwiís ynjwsfrjsyj d hts qálwnrfx, inot vzj qj
fdzifxjs js fvzjq ywfshj hts xjsitx ufyjwstxywjx d xjsifx fajrfwífx, utwvzj
Intx ijufwfxj vznjs utw jqqtx qtx inojxj hzfsit js xjrjofsyjx ywfshjx xj
anjxjs. F qt vzj inot its Vznotyj:

-Qfiwós, ¿jxyáx uzjxyt js qf mtwhf utw ajsyzwf, t js jq úqynrt yéwrnst ij
qf anif, ufwf zxfw ij xjrjofsyjx uqjlfwnfx? ¿St jxyáx, ijxfqrfif d htgfwij
hwnfyzwf, js jq rnxrt qzlfw vzj thzuó qf qnsif Rflfqtsf, ijq hzfq ijhjsinó,
st f qf xjuzqyzwf, xnst f xjw wjnsf ij Kwfshnf, xn st rnjsyjs qfx
mnxytwnfx? D dt, vzj atd f yz qfit, ¿st uzjit utsjwrj fq ijq afqjwtxt
Unjwwjx, vzj tuwnrnó jxyj rnxrt qzlfw vzj dt fmtwf tuwnrt? Húgwjyj,
húgwjyj, fsnrfq ijxhtwfetsfit, d st yj xfqlf f qf gthf jq yjrtw vzj ynjsjx,
f qt rjstx js uwjxjshnf ríf.

-Yáujsrj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d, uzjx st vznjwjs vzj rj jshtrnjsij f Intx sn
vzj xjf jshtrjsifit, ¿vzé rzhmt vzj yjrf st fsij utw fvzí fqlzsf wjlnós ij
infgqtx vzj ijs hts stxtywtx js Ujwfqanqqt?

Hzgwnéwtsxj, d, xnsynjsit its Vznotyj vzj jxyfgf htrt mfgíf ij jxyfw, yjsyó
qf hqfanof, d, fujsfx mzgt uzjxyt qtx ijitx js jqqf, hzfsit ytifx qfx
izjñfx d hzfsytx jxyfgfs uwjxjsyjx qjafsyfwts qfx athjx, inhnjsit:

-¡Intx yj lzíj, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt!

-¡Intx xjf htsynlt, jxhzijwt nsywéunit!

-¡Df, df afnx utw jxtx fnwjx, wtrunésitqtx hts ráx ajqthnifi vzj zsf xfjyf!

-¡Df htrjseánx f xzxujsijw d firnwfw f hzfsytx ijxij qf ynjwwf tx jxyás
rnwfsit!

-¡Yjsyj, afqjwtxt Xfshmt, vzj yj gfrgtqjfx! ¡Rnwf st hfdfx, vzj xjwá ujtw
yz hfíif vzj qf ijq fywjanit rtet vzj vznxt wjlnw jq hfwwt ijq Xtq, xz
ufiwj!

Tdó Xfshmt qfx athjx, d, fuwjyásitxj hts xz frt d hnñnésitqj hts qtx
gwfetx, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, ¿hórt inhjs éxytx vzj afrtx yfs fqytx, xn fqhfsefs fhá xzx athjx, d
st ufwjhjs xnst vzj jxyás fvzí mfgqfsit ozsyt f stxtywtx?

-St wjufwjx js jxt, Xfshmt, vzj, htrt jxyfx htxfx d jxyfx atqfyjwífx afs
kzjwf ij qtx hzwxtx twinsfwntx, ij rnq qjlzfx ajwáx d tnwáx qt vzj
vznxnjwjx. D st rj fuwnjyjx yfsyt, vzj rj ijwwngfx; d js ajwifi vzj st xé
ij vzé yj yzwgfx sn yj jxufsyfx, vzj txfwé ozwfw vzj js ytitx qtx iífx ij
rn anif mj xzgnit js hfgfqlfizwf ij ufxt ráx qqfst: st ufwjhj xnst vzj st
stx rtajrtx ij zs qzlfw. Ijxynjwwf, frnlt, jq rnjit, vzj, js jkjhyt, qf
htxf af htrt mf ij nw d jq anjsyt qqjafrtx js utuf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj utw jxyj qfit rj if zs anjsyt yfs
wjhnt, vzj ufwjhj vzj hts rnq kzjqqjx rj jxyás xtuqfsit.

D fxí jwf jqqt, vzj zstx lwfsijx kzjqqjx qj jxyfgfs mfhnjsit fnwj: yfs gnjs
ywfefif jxyfgf qf yfq fajsyzwf utw jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf d xz rfdtwitrt,
vzj st qj kfqyó wjvznxnyt vzj qf ijofxj ij mfhjw ujwkjhyf.

Xnsynésitxj, uzjx, xtuqfw its Vznotyj, inot:

-Xns izif fqlzsf, Xfshmt, vzj df ijgjrtx ij qqjlfw f qf xjlzsif wjlnós ijq
fnwj, fitsij xj jsljsiwf jq lwfsnet, qfx snjajx; qtx ywzjstx, qtx
wjqárufltx d qtx wfdtx xj jsljsiwfs js qf yjwhjwf wjlnós, d xn jx vzj ijxyf
rfsjwf afrtx xzgnjsit, uwjxyt ifwjrtx js qf wjlnós ijq kzjlt, d st xé dt
hórt yjruqfw jxyf hqfanof ufwf vzj st xzgfrtx itsij stx fgwfxjrtx.

Js jxyt, hts zsfx jxytufx qnljwfx ij jshjsijwxj d fuflfwxj, ijxij qjotx,
ujsinjsyjx ij zsf hfñf, qjx hfqjsyfgfs qtx wtxywtx. Xfshmt, vzj xnsynó jq
hfqtw, inot:

-Vzj rj rfyjs xn st jxyfrtx df js jq qzlfw ijq kzjlt, t gnjs hjwhf, utwvzj
zsf lwfs ufwyj ij rn gfwgf xj rj mf hmfrzxhfit, d jxytd, xjñtw, utw
ijxhzgwnwrj d ajw js vzé ufwyj jxyfrtx.

-St mflfx yfq -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d fhzéwifyj ijq ajwifijwt hzjsyt ijq
qnhjshnfit Ytwwfqgf, f vznjs qqjafwts qtx infgqtx js atqfsifx utw jq fnwj,
hfgfqqjwt js zsf hfñf, hjwwfitx qtx totx, d js ithj mtwfx qqjló f Wtrf, d
xj fujó js Ytwwj ij Stsf, vzj jx zsf hfqqj ij qf hnzifi, d ant ytit jq
kwfhfxt d fxfqyt d rzjwyj ij Gtwgós, d utw qf rfñfsf df jxyfgf ij azjqyf js
Rfiwni, itsij int hzjsyf ij ytit qt vzj mfgíf anxyt; jq hzfq fxnrnxrt inot
vzj hzfsit ngf utw jq fnwj qj rfsió jq infgqt vzj fgwnjxj qtx totx, d qtx
fgwnó, d xj ant yfs hjwhf, f xz ufwjhjw, ijq hzjwut ij qf qzsf, vzj qf
uzinjwf fxnw hts qf rfst, d vzj st txó rnwfw f qf ynjwwf utw st
ijxafsjhjwxj. Fxí vzj, Xfshmt, st mfd ufwf vzé ijxhzgwnwstx; vzj, jq vzj
stx qqjaf f hfwlt, éq ifwá hzjsyf ij stxtywtx, d vzneá afrtx ytrfsit uzsyfx
d xzgnjsit js fqyt ufwf ijofwstx hfjw ij zsf xtgwj jq wjnst ij Hfsifdf,
htrt mfhj jq xfhwj t sjgqí xtgwj qf lfwef ufwf htljwqf, utw ráx vzj xj
wjrtsyj; d, fzsvzj stx ufwjhj vzj st mf rjinf mtwf vzj stx ufwynrtx ijq
ofwiís, hwjérj vzj ijgjrtx ij mfgjw mjhmt lwfs hfrnst.

-St xé qt vzj jx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt Ufsef-, xóqt xé ijhnw vzj xn qf xjñtwf
Rflfqqfsjx t Rflfqtsf xj htsyjsyó ijxyfx fshfx, vzj st ijgíf ij xjw rzd
ynjwsf ij hfwsjx.

Ytifx jxyfx uqáynhfx ij qtx itx afqnjsyjx tífs jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf d qtx
ijq ofwiís, ij vzj wjhngífs jxywftwinsfwnt htsyjsyt; d, vzjwnjsit ifw
wjrfyj f qf jxywfñf d gnjs kfgwnhfif fajsyzwf, utw qf htqf ij Hqfanqjñt qj
ujlfwts kzjlt hts zsfx jxytufx, d fq uzsyt, utw jxyfw jq hfgfqqt qqjst ij
htmjyjx ywtsfitwjx, atqó utw qtx fnwjx, hts jxywfñt wznit, d int hts its
Vznotyj d hts Xfshmt Ufsef js jq xzjqt, rjint hmfrzxhfitx.

Js jxyj ynjrut df xj mfgífs ijxufwjhnit ijq ofwiís ytit jq gfwgfit
jxhzfiwós ij qfx izjñfx d qf Ywnkfqin d ytit, d qtx ijq ofwiís vzjifwts
htrt ijxrfdfitx, yjsinitx utw jq xzjqt. Its Vznotyj d Xfshmt xj qjafsyfwts
rfqywjhmtx, d, rnwfsit f ytifx ufwyjx, vzjifwts fyósnytx ij ajwxj js jq
rjxrt ofwiís ij itsij mfgífs ufwynit d ij ajw yjsinit utw ynjwwf yfsyt
súrjwt ij ljsyj; d hwjhnó ráx xz firnwfhnós hzfsit f zs qfit ijq ofwiís
anjwts mnshfif zsf lwfs qfsef js jq xzjqt d ujsinjsyj ijqqf d ij itx
htwitsjx ij xjif ajwij zs ujwlfrnst qnxt d gqfsht, js jq hzfq, hts lwfsijx
qjywfx ij twt, jxyfgf jxhwnyt qt xnlznjsyj:

Jq íshqnyt hfgfqqjwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf kjsjhnó d fhfgó qf fajsyzwf
ij qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, utw tywt strgwj qqfrfif qf izjñf Itqtwnif, d
htrufñíf, hts xóqt nsyjsyfwqf.

Rfqfrgwzst xj if utw htsyjsyt d xfynxkjhmt f ytif xz atqzsyfi, d qfx gfwgfx
ij qfx izjñfx df vzjifs qnxfx d rtsifx, d qtx wjdjx its Hqfanot d
Fsytstrfxnf js xz uwíxynst jxyfit. D, hzfsit xj hzruqnjwj jq jxhzijwnq
aáuzqt, qf gqfshf ufqtrf xj ajwá qngwj ij qtx ujxyíkjwtx lnwnkfqyjx vzj qf
ujwxnlzjs, d js gwfetx ij xz vzjwnit fwwzqqfitw; vzj fxí jxyá twijsfit utw
jq xfgnt Rjwqís, uwtytjshfsyfitw ij qtx jshfsyfitwjx.

Mfgnjsit, uzjx, its Vznotyj qjíit qfx qjywfx ijq ujwlfrnst, hqfwt jsyjsinó
vzj ijq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf mfgqfgfs; d, ifsit rzhmfx lwfhnfx fq hnjqt
ij vzj hts yfs utht ujqnlwt mzgnjxj fhfgfit yfs lwfs kjhmt, wjizhnjsit f xz
ufxfif yje qtx wtxywtx ij qfx ajsjwfgqjx izjñfx, vzj df st ufwjhífs, xj kzj
fitsij jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf fús st mfgífs azjqyt js xí, d, ywfgfsit ij qf
rfst fq izvzj, qj inot:

-¡Jf, gzjs xjñtw, gzjs ásnrt; gzjs ásnrt, vzj ytit jx sfif! Qf fajsyzwf jx
df fhfgfif xns ifñt ij gfwwfx, htrt qt rzjxywf hqfwt jq jxhwnyt vzj js
fvzjq ufiwós jxyá uzjxyt.

Jq izvzj, utht f utht, d htrt vznjs ij zs ujxfit xzjñt wjhzjwif, kzj
atqanjsit js xí, d utw jq rnxrt yjstw qf izvzjxf d ytitx qtx vzj utw jq
ofwiís jxyfgfs hfíitx, hts yfqjx rzjxywfx ij rfwfanqqf d jxufsyt, vzj hfxn
xj utiífs ifw f jsyjsijw mfgjwqjx fhtsyjhnit ij ajwfx qt vzj yfs gnjs
xfgífs knslnw ij gzwqfx. Qjdó jq izvzj jq hfwyjq hts qtx totx rjint
hjwwfitx, d qzjlt, hts qtx gwfetx fgnjwytx, kzj f fgwfefw f its Vznotyj,
inhnésitqj xjw jq ráx gzjs hfgfqqjwt vzj js snslús xnlqt xj mzgnjxj anxyt.

Xfshmt fsifgf rnwfsit utw qf Itqtwnif, utw ajw vzé wtxywt yjsíf xns qfx
gfwgfx, d xn jwf yfs mjwrtxf xns jqqfx htrt xz lfqqfwif inxutxnhnós
uwtrjyíf, ujwt inoéwtsqj vzj, fxí htrt Hqfanqjñt gfoó fwinjsit utw qtx
fnwjx d int js jq xzjqt, ytit jq jxhzfiwós ij qfx izjñfx, hts qf Ywnkfqin,
mfgíf ijxfufwjhnit, d vzj df ngfs wfufifx d xns hfñtsjx. Uwjlzsyó qf
izvzjxf f Xfshmt vzj hórt qj mfgíf nit js fvzjq qfwlt anfoj. F qt hzfq
Xfshmt wjxutsinó:

-Dt, xjñtwf, xjsyí vzj ígfrtx, xjlús rn xjñtw rj inot, atqfsit utw qf
wjlnós ijq kzjlt, d vznxj ijxhzgwnwrj zs utht qtx totx, ujwt rn frt, f
vznjs ujií qnhjshnf ufwf ijxhzgwnwrj, st qf htsxnsynó; rfx dt, vzj yjslt st
xé vzé gwnesfx ij hzwntxt d ij ijxjfw xfgjw qt vzj xj rj jxytwgf d nrunij,
gtsnyfrjsyj d xns vzj sfinj qt anjxj, utw ozsyt f qfx sfwnhjx fufwyé yfsyt
hzfsyt jq ufñnezjqt vzj rj yfufgf qtx totx, d utw fqqí rnwé mfhnf qf
ynjwwf, d ufwjhnórj vzj ytif jqqf st jwf rfdtw vzj zs lwfst ij rtxyfef, d
qtx mtrgwjx vzj fsifgfs xtgwj jqqf, utht rfdtwjx vzj fajqqfsfx; utwvzj xj
ajf hzás fqytx ijgífrtx ij nw jsytshjx.

F jxyt inot qf izvzjxf:

-Xfshmt frnlt, rnwfi qt vzj ijhíx, vzj, f qt vzj ufwjhj, atx st anxyjx qf
ynjwwf, xnst qtx mtrgwjx vzj fsifgfs xtgwj jqqf; d jxyá hqfwt vzj xn qf
ynjwwf tx ufwjhnó htrt zs lwfst ij rtxyfef, d hfif mtrgwj htrt zsf
fajqqfsf, zs mtrgwj xtqt mfgíf ij hzgwnw ytif qf ynjwwf.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt, hts ytit jxt, qf ijxhzgwí utw zs
qfinyt, d qf an ytif.

-Rnwfi, Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf-, vzj utw zs qfinyt st xj ajj jq ytit ij qt
vzj xj rnwf.

-Dt st xé jxfx rnwfifx -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-: xóqt xé vzj xjwá gnjs vzj azjxywf
xjñtwíf jsynjsif vzj, uzjx atqágfrtx utw jshfsyfrjsyt, utw jshfsyfrjsyt
utiíf dt ajw ytif qf ynjwwf d ytitx qtx mtrgwjx utw itvznjwf vzj qtx
rnwfwf; d xn jxyt st xj rj hwjj, yfrutht hwjjwá azjxywf rjwhji hórt,
ijxhzgwnésitrj utw ozsyt f qfx hjofx, rj an yfs ozsyt fq hnjqt vzj st mfgíf
ij rí f éq ufqrt d rjint, d utw qt vzj uzjit ozwfw, xjñtwf ríf, vzj jx rzd
lwfsij fijráx. D xzhjinó vzj ígfrtx utw ufwyj itsij jxyás qfx xnjyj
hfgwnqqfx; d js Intx d js rn ásnrf vzj, htrt dt js rn snñje kzn js rn
ynjwwf hfgwjwnet, vzj fxí htrt qfx an, ¡rj int zsf lfsf ij jsywjyjsjwrj hts
jqqfx zs wfyt...! D xn st qj hzruqnjwf rj ufwjhj vzj wjajsyfwf. Ajslt,
uzjx, d ytrt, d ¿vzé mflt? Xns ijhnw sfif f sfinj, sn f rn xjñtw yfrutht,
gtsnyf d ufxnyfrjsyj rj fujé ij Hqfanqjñt, d rj jsywjyzaj hts qfx
hfgwnqqfx, vzj xts htrt zstx fqmjqíjx d htrt zsfx kqtwjx, hfxn ywjx hzfwytx
ij mtwf, d Hqfanqjñt st xj rtanó ij zs qzlfw, sn ufxó fijqfsyj.

-D, js yfsyt vzj jq gzjs Xfshmt xj jsywjyjsíf hts qfx hfgwfx -uwjlzsyó jq
izvzj-, ¿js vzé xj jsywjyjsíf jq xjñtw its Vznotyj?

F qt vzj its Vznotyj wjxutsinó:

-Htrt ytifx jxyfx htxfx d jxytx yfqjx xzhjxtx afs kzjwf ijq twijs sfyzwfq,
st jx rzhmt vzj Xfshmt inlf qt vzj inhj. Ij rí xé ijhnw vzj sn rj ijxhzgwí
utw fqyt sn utw gfot, sn an jq hnjqt sn qf ynjwwf, sn qf rfw sn qfx fwjsfx.
Gnjs jx ajwifi vzj xjsyí vzj ufxfgf utw qf wjlnós ijq fnwj, d fzs vzj
ythfgf f qf ijq kzjlt; ujwt vzj ufxáxjrtx ij fqqí st qt uzjit hwjjw, uzjx,
jxyfsit qf wjlnós ijq kzjlt jsywj jq hnjqt ij qf qzsf d qf úqynrf wjlnós
ijq fnwj, st utiífrtx qqjlfw fq hnjqt itsij jxyás qfx xnjyj hfgwnqqfx vzj
Xfshmt inhj, xns fgwfxfwstx; d, uzjx st stx fxzwfrtx, t Xfshmt rnjsyj t
Xfshmt xzjñf.

-Sn rnjsyt sn xzjñt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: xn st, uwjlúsyjsrj qfx xjñfx ij qfx
yfqjx hfgwfx, d utw jqqfx ajwás xn inlt ajwifi t st.

-Iílfqfx, uzjx, Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf.

-Xts -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- qfx itx ajwijx, qfx itx jshfwsfifx, qfx itx fezqjx,
d qf zsf ij rjehqf.

-Szjaf rfsjwf ij hfgwfx jx éxf -inot jq izvzj-, d utw jxyf szjxywf wjlnós
ijq xzjqt st xj zxfs yfqjx htqtwjx; inlt, hfgwfx ij yfqjx htqtwjx.

-Gnjs hqfwt jxyá jxt -inot Xfshmt-; xí, vzj inkjwjshnf mf ij mfgjw ij qfx
hfgwfx ijq hnjqt f qfx ijq xzjqt.

-Ijhnirj, Xfshmt -uwjlzsyó jq izvzj-: ¿anxyjx fqqá js jsywj jxfx hfgwfx
fqlús hfgwós?

-St, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt tí ijhnw vzj snslzst ufxfgf ij qtx
hzjwstx ij qf qzsf.

St vznxnjwts uwjlzsyfwqj ráx ij xz anfoj, utwvzj qjx ufwjhnó vzj qqjafgf
Xfshmt mnqt ij ufxjfwxj utw ytitx qtx hnjqtx, d ifw szjafx ij hzfsyt fqqá
ufxfgf, xns mfgjwxj rtanit ijq ofwiís.

Js wjxtqzhnós, éxyj kzj jq kns ij qf fajsyzwf ij qf izjñf Itqtwnif, vzj int
vzj wjíw f qtx izvzjx, st xóqt fvzjq ynjrut, xnst jq ij ytif xz anif, d vzj
htsyfw f Xfshmt xnlqtx, xn qtx ananjwf; d, qqjlásitxj its Vznotyj f Xfshmt,
fq tíit qj inot:

-Xfshmt, uzjx atx vzjwénx vzj xj tx hwjf qt vzj mfgénx anxyt js jq hnjqt,
dt vznjwt vzj atx rj hwjánx f rí qt vzj an js qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx; d st
tx inlt ráx.





Hfuíyzqt CQNN. Ij qtx htsxjotx vzj int its Vznotyj f Xfshmt Ufsef fsyjx vzj
kzjxj f ltgjwsfw qf ísxzqf, hts tywfx htxfx gnjs htsxnijwfifx


Hts jq kjqnhj d lwfhntxt xzhjxt ij qf fajsyzwf ij qf Itqtwnif, vzjifwts yfs
htsyjsytx qtx izvzjx, vzj ijyjwrnsfwts ufxfw hts qfx gzwqfx fijqfsyj,
anjsit jq fhtrtifit xzojyt vzj yjsífs ufwf vzj xj yzanjxjs utw ajwfx; d
fxí, mfgnjsit ifit qf ywfef d ówijsjx vzj xzx hwnfitx d xzx afxfqqtx mfgífs
ij lzfwifw hts Xfshmt js jq ltgnjwst ij qf ísxzqf uwtrjynif, tywt iíf, vzj
kzj jq vzj xzhjinó fq azjqt ij Hqfanqjñt, inot jq izvzj f Xfshmt vzj xj
fijqnñfxj d htruzxnjxj ufwf nw f xjw ltgjwsfitw, vzj df xzx nsxzqfstx qj
jxyfgfs jxujwfsit htrt jq flzf ij rfdt. Xfshmt xj qj mzrnqqó d qj inot:

-Ijxuzéx vzj gfoé ijq hnjqt, d ijxuzéx vzj ijxij xz fqyf hzrgwj rnwé qf
ynjwwf d qf an yfs ujvzjñf, xj yjruqó js ufwyj js rí qf lfsf vzj yjsíf yfs
lwfsij ij xjw ltgjwsfitw; utwvzj, ¿vzé lwfsijef jx rfsifw js zs lwfst ij
rtxyfef, t vzé inlsnifi t nrujwnt jq ltgjwsfw f rjinf ithjsf ij mtrgwjx
yfrfñtx htrt fajqqfsfx, vzj, f rn ufwjhjw, st mfgíf ráx js ytif qf ynjwwf?
Xn azjxywf xjñtwíf kzjxj xjwanit ij ifwrj zsf yfsynhf ufwyj ijq hnjqt,
fzsvzj st kzjxj ráx ij rjinf qjlzf, qf ytrfwíf ij rjotw lfsf vzj qf rfdtw
ísxzqf ijq rzsit.

-Rnwfi, frnlt Xfshmt -wjxutsinó jq izvzj-: dt st uzjit ifw ufwyj ijq hnjqt
f sfinj, fzsvzj st xjf rfdtw vzj zsf zñf, vzj f xtqt Intx jxyás wjxjwafifx
jxfx rjwhjijx d lwfhnfx. Qt vzj uzjit ifw tx itd, vzj jx zsf ísxzqf mjhmf d
ijwjhmf, wjitsif d gnjs uwtutwhntsfif, d xtgwjrfsjwf kéwynq d fgzsitxf,
itsij xn atx tx xfgénx ifw rfñf, utiénx hts qfx wnvzjefx ij qf ynjwwf
lwfsojfw qfx ijq hnjqt.

-Fmtwf gnjs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ajslf jxf ísxzqf, vzj dt uzlsfwé utw xjw
yfq ltgjwsfitw vzj, f ujxfw ij gjqqfhtx, rj afdf fq hnjqt; d jxyt st jx utw
htinhnf vzj dt yjslf ij xfqnw ij rnx hfxnqqfx sn ij qjafsyfwrj f rfdtwjx,
xnst utw jq ijxjt vzj yjslt ij uwtgfw f vzé xfgj jq xjw ltgjwsfitw.

-Xn zsf aje qt uwtgánx, Xfshmt -inot jq izvzj-, htrjwtx mjnx qfx rfstx ywfx
jq ltgnjwst, utw xjw izqhíxnrf htxf jq rfsifw d xjw tgjijhnit. F gzjs
xjlzwt vzj hzfsit azjxywt izjñt qqjlzj f xjw jrujwfitw, vzj qt xjwá xns
izif, xjlús afs jshfrnsfifx xzx htxfx, vzj st xj qt fwwfsvzjs htrtvznjwf, d
vzj qj izjqf d qj ujxj js qf rnyfi ijq fqrf ijq ynjrut vzj mzgnjwj ijofit
ij xjwqt.

-Xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, dt nrflnst vzj jx gzjst rfsifw, fzsvzj xjf f zs
mfyt ij lfsfit.

-Hts atx rj jsynjwwjs, Xfshmt, vzj xfgénx ij ytit -wjxutsinó jq izvzj-, d
dt jxujwt vzj xjwénx yfq ltgjwsfitw htrt azjxywt oznhnt uwtrjyj, d vzéijxj
jxyt fvzí d fiajwyni vzj rfñfsf js jxj rjxrt iíf mfgénx ij nw fq ltgnjwst
ij qf ísxzqf, d jxyf yfwij tx fhtrtifwás ijq ywfoj htsajsnjsyj vzj mfgénx
ij qqjafw d ij ytifx qfx htxfx sjhjxfwnfx f azjxywf ufwynif.

-Aíxyfsrj -inot Xfshmt- htrt vznxnjwjs, vzj ij hzfqvznjw rfsjwf vzj afdf
ajxynit xjwé Xfshmt Ufsef.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot jq izvzj-, ujwt qtx ywfojx xj mfs ij fhtrtifw hts jq
tknhnt t inlsnifi vzj xj uwtkjxf, vzj st xjwíf gnjs vzj zs ozwnxujwnyt xj
anxynjxj htrt xtqifit, sn zs xtqifit htrt zs xfhjwityj. Atx, Xfshmt, nwénx
ajxynit ufwyj ij qjywfit d ufwyj ij hfunyás, utwvzj js qf ísxzqf vzj tx itd
yfsyt xts rjsjxyjw qfx fwrfx htrt qfx qjywfx, d qfx qjywfx htrt qfx fwrfx.

-Qjywfx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, uthfx yjslt, utwvzj fús st xé jq F, G, H; ujwt
gáxyfrj yjsjw jq Hmwnxyzx js qf rjrtwnf ufwf xjw gzjs ltgjwsfitw. Ij qfx
fwrfx rfsjofwé qfx vzj rj injwjs, mfxyf hfjw, d Intx ijqfsyj.

-Hts yfs gzjsf rjrtwnf -inot jq izvzj-, st utiwá Xfshmt jwwfw js sfif.

Js jxyt qqjló its Vznotyj, d, xfgnjsit qt vzj ufxfgf d qf hjqjwnifi hts vzj
Xfshmt xj mfgíf ij ufwynw f xz ltgnjwst, hts qnhjshnf ijq izvzj qj ytró utw
qf rfst d xj kzj hts éq f xz jxyfshnf, hts nsyjshnós ij fhtsxjofwqj hórt xj
mfgíf ij mfgjw js xz tknhnt.

Jsywfitx, uzjx, js xz futxjsyt, hjwwó ywfx xí qf uzjwyf, d mnet hfxn utw
kzjwef vzj Xfshmt xj xjsyfxj ozsyt f éq, d hts wjutxfif ate qj inot:

-Nsknsnyfx lwfhnfx itd fq hnjqt, Xfshmt frnlt, ij vzj, fsyjx d uwnrjwt vzj
dt mfdf jshtsywfit hts fqlzsf gzjsf inhmf, yj mfdf xfqnit f yn f wjhjgnw d
f jshtsywfw qf gzjsf ajsyzwf. Dt, vzj js rn gzjsf xzjwyj yj yjsíf qngwfif
qf uflf ij yzx xjwanhntx, rj ajt js qtx uwnshnuntx ij fajsyfofwrj, d yú,
fsyjx ij ynjrut, htsywf qf qjd ijq wfetsfgqj inxhzwxt, yj ajjx uwjrnfit ij
yzx ijxjtx. Tywtx htmjhmfs, nrutwyzsfs, xtqnhnyfs, rfiwzlfs, wzjlfs,
utwkífs, d st fqhfsefs qt vzj uwjyjsijs; d qqjlf tywt, d xns xfgjw hórt sn
hórt st, xj mfqqf hts jq hfwlt d tknhnt vzj tywtx rzhmtx uwjyjsinjwts; d
fvzí jsywf d jshfof gnjs jq ijhnw vzj mfd gzjsf d rfqf ktwyzsf js qfx
uwjyjsxntsjx. Yú, vzj ufwf rí, xns izif fqlzsf, jwjx zs utwwt, xns rfiwzlfw
sn ywfxsthmfw d xns mfhjw inqnljshnf fqlzsf, hts xtqt jq fqnjsyt vzj yj mf
ythfit ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, xns ráx sn ráx yj ajjx ltgjwsfitw ij zsf
ísxzqf, htrt vznjs st inhj sfif. Ytit jxyt inlt, ¡tm Xfshmt!, ufwf vzj st
fywngzdfx f yzx rjwjhnrnjsytx qf rjwhji wjhjgnif, xnst vzj ijx lwfhnfx fq
hnjqt, vzj inxutsj xzfajrjsyj qfx htxfx, d ijxuzéx qfx ifwáx f qf lwfsijef
vzj js xí jshnjwwf qf uwtkjxnós ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj. Inxuzjxyt, uzjx,
jq htwfeós f hwjjw qt vzj yj mj inhmt, jxyá, ¡tm mnot!, fyjsyt f jxyj yz
Hfyós, vzj vznjwj fhtsxjofwyj d xjw stwyj d lzíf vzj yj jshfrnsj d xfvzj f
xjlzwt uzjwyt ijxyj rfw uwthjqtxt itsij afx f jsltqkfwyj; vzj qtx tknhntx d
lwfsijx hfwltx st xts tywf htxf xnst zs ltqkt uwtkzsit ij htskzxntsjx.
Uwnrjwfrjsyj, ¡tm mnot!, mfx ij yjrjw f Intx, utwvzj js jq yjrjwqj jxyá qf
xfgnizwíf, d xnjsit xfgnt st utiwáx jwwfw js sfif. Qt xjlzsit, mfx ij utsjw
qtx totx js vznjs jwjx, uwthzwfsit htsthjwyj f yn rnxrt, vzj jx jq ráx
inkíhnq htsthnrnjsyt vzj uzjij nrflnsfwxj. Ijq htsthjwyj xfqiwá jq st
mnshmfwyj htrt qf wfsf vzj vznxt nlzfqfwxj hts jq gzjd, vzj xn jxyt mfhjx,
ajsiwá f xjw kjtx unjx ij qf wzjif ij yz qthzwf qf htsxnijwfhnós ij mfgjw
lzfwifit uzjwhtx js yz ynjwwf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt kzj hzfsit rzhmfhmt; ujwt
ijxuzéx, fqlt mtrgwjhnqqt, lfsxtx kzjwts qtx vzj lzfwié, vzj st uzjwhtx;
ujwt jxyt ufwéhjrj f rí vzj st mfhj fq hfxt, vzj st ytitx qtx vzj ltgnjwsfs
anjsjs ij hfxyf ij wjdjx.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utw qt hzfq qtx st ij uwnshnuntx
stgqjx ijgjs fhtrufñfw qf lwfajifi ijq hfwlt vzj jojwhnyfs hts zsf gqfsif
xzfanifi vzj, lznfif utw qf uwzijshnf, qtx qngwj ij qf rzwrzwfhnós
rfqnhntxf, ij vznjs st mfd jxyfit vzj xj jxhfuj. Mfe lfqf, Xfshmt, ij qf
mzrnqifi ij yz qnsfoj, d st yj ijxuwjhnjx ij ijhnw vzj anjsjx ij
qfgwfitwjx; utwvzj, anjsit vzj st yj htwwjx, snslzst xj utsiwá f htwwjwyj;
d uwéhnfyj ráx ij xjw mzrnqij anwyztxt vzj ujhfitw xtgjwgnt. Nszrjwfgqjx
xts fvzjqqtx vzj, ij gfof jxynwuj sfhnitx, mfs xzgnit f qf xzrf inlsnifi
utsynknhnf j nrujwfytwnf; d ijxyf ajwifi yj uzinjwf ywfjw yfsytx jojruqtx,
vzj yj hfsxfwfs. Rnwf, Xfshmt: xn ytrfx utw rjint f qf anwyzi, d yj uwjhnfx
ij mfhjw mjhmtx anwyztxtx, st mfd ufwf vzé yjsjw jsaninf f qtx vzj qtx
ynjsjs ij uwíshnujx d xjñtwjx, utwvzj qf xfslwj xj mjwjif d qf anwyzi xj
fvznxyf, d qf anwyzi afqj utw xí xtqf qt vzj qf xfslwj st afqj. Xnjsit jxyt
fxí, htrt qt jx, vzj xn fhfxt ansnjwj f ajwyj hzfsit jxyéx js yz ísxzqf
fqlzst ij yzx ufwnjsyjx, st qj ijxjhmjx sn qj fkwjsyjx; fsyjx qj mfx ij
fhtljw, flfxfofw d wjlfqfw, vzj hts jxyt xfynxkfwáx fq hnjqt, vzj lzxyf vzj
sfinj xj ijxuwjhnj ij qt vzj éq mnet, d htwwjxutsijwáx f qt vzj ijgjx f qf
sfyzwfqjef gnjs htshjwyfif. Xn ywzojwjx f yz rzojw htsynlt (utwvzj st jx
gnjs vzj qtx vzj fxnxyjs f ltgnjwstx ij rzhmt ynjrut jxyés xns qfx
uwtunfx), jsxéñfqf, ithywísfqf d ijxgáxyfqf ij xz sfyzwfq wzijef, utwvzj
ytit qt vzj xzjqj fivznwnw zs ltgjwsfitw inxhwjyt xzjqj ujwijw d ijwwfrfw
zsf rzojw wúxynhf d ytsyf. Xn fhfxt jsanzifwjx, htxf vzj uzjij xzhjijw, d
hts jq hfwlt rjotwfwjx ij htsxtwyj, st qf ytrjx yfq, vzj yj xnwaf ij
fsezjqt d ij hfñf ij ujxhfw, d ijq st vznjwt ij yz hfunqqf, utwvzj js
ajwifi yj inlt vzj ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj qf rzojw ijq ozje wjhngnjwj mf ij
ifw hzjsyf jq rfwnit js qf wjxnijshnf zsnajwxfq, itsij uflfwá hts jq hzfywt
yfsyt js qf rzjwyj qfx ufwynifx ij vzj st xj mzgnjwj mjhmt hfwlt js qf
anif. Szshf yj lzíjx utw qf qjd ijq jshfoj, vzj xzjqj yjsjw rzhmf hfgnif
hts qtx nlstwfsyjx vzj uwjxzrjs ij flzitx. Mfqqjs js yn ráx htrufxnós qfx
qálwnrfx ijq utgwj, ujwt st ráx ozxynhnf, vzj qfx nsktwrfhntsjx ijq wnht.
Uwthzwf ijxhzgwnw qf ajwifi utw jsywj qfx uwtrjxfx d iáinafx ijq wnht, htrt
utw jsywj qtx xtqqtetx j nrutwyzsnifijx ijq utgwj. Hzfsit uzinjwj d ijgnjwj
yjsjw qzlfw qf jvznifi, st hfwlzjx ytit jq wnltw ij qf qjd fq ijqnshzjsyj,
vzj st jx rjotw qf kfrf ijq ozje wnlzwtxt vzj qf ijq htrufxnat. Xn fhfxt
itgqfwjx qf afwf ij qf ozxynhnf, st xjf hts jq ujxt ij qf iáinaf, xnst hts
jq ij qf rnxjwnhtwinf. Hzfsit yj xzhjinjwj ozelfw fqlús uqjnyt ij fqlús yz
jsjrnlt, fufwyf qfx rnjsyjx ij yz nsozwnf d utsqfx js qf ajwifi ijq hfxt.
St yj hnjlzj qf ufxnós uwtunf js qf hfzxf fojsf, vzj qtx djwwtx vzj js jqqf
mnhnjwjx, qfx ráx ajhjx, xjwás xns wjrjint; d xn qj yzanjwjs, xjwá f htxyf
ij yz hwéinyt, d fzs ij yz mfhnjsif. Xn fqlzsf rzojw mjwrtxf ajsnjwj f
ujinwyj ozxynhnf, vznyf qtx totx ij xzx qálwnrfx d yzx tíitx ij xzx
ljrnitx, d htsxnijwf ij jxufhnt qf xzxyfshnf ij qt vzj unij, xn st vznjwjx
vzj xj fsjlzj yz wfeós js xz qqfsyt d yz gtsifi js xzx xzxunwtx. Fq vzj mfx
ij hfxynlfw hts tgwfx st ywfyjx rfq hts ufqfgwfx, uzjx qj gfxyf fq
ijxinhmfit qf ujsf ijq xzuqnhnt, xns qf fñfinizwf ij qfx rfqfx wfetsjx. Fq
hzqufit vzj hfdjwj ijgfot ij yz ozwninhnós htsxniéwfqj mtrgwj rnxjwfgqj,
xzojyt f qfx htsinhntsjx ij qf ijuwfafif sfyzwfqjef szjxywf, d js ytit
hzfsyt kzjwj ij yz ufwyj, xns mfhjw flwfant f qf htsywfwnf, rzéxywfyjqj
unfitxt d hqjrjsyj, utwvzj, fzsvzj qtx fywngzytx ij Intx ytitx xts nlzfqjx,
ráx wjxuqfsijhj d hfrujf f szjxywt ajw jq ij qf rnxjwnhtwinf vzj jq ij qf
ozxynhnf. Xn jxytx uwjhjuytx d jxyfx wjlqfx xnlzjx, Xfshmt, xjwás qzjsltx
yzx iífx, yz kfrf xjwá jyjwsf, yzx uwjrntx htqrfitx, yz kjqnhnifi
nsijhngqj, hfxfwáx yzx mnotx htrt vznxnjwjx, yíyzqtx yjsiwás jqqtx d yzx
snjytx, ananwáx js ufe d gjsjuqáhnyt ij qfx ljsyjx, d js qtx úqynrtx ufxtx
ij qf anif yj fqhfsefwá jq ij qf rzjwyj, js ajoje xzfaj d rfizwf, d
hjwwfwás yzx totx qfx ynjwsfx d ijqnhfifx rfstx ij yzx yjwhjwtx sjyjezjqtx.
Jxyt vzj mfxyf fvzí yj mj inhmt xts ithzrjsytx vzj mfs ij fitwsfw yz fqrf;
jxhzhmf fmtwf qtx vzj mfs ij xjwanw ufwf fitwst ijq hzjwut.





Hfuíyzqt CQNNN. Ij qtx htsxjotx xjlzsitx vzj int its Vznotyj f Xfshmt Ufsef


¿Vznés tdjwf jq ufxfit wfetsfrnjsyt ij its Vznotyj vzj st qj yzanjwf utw
ujwxtsf rzd hzjwif d rjotw nsyjshntsfif? Ujwt, htrt rzhmfx ajhjx js jq
uwtlwjxt ijxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf vzjif inhmt, xtqfrjsyj inxufwfgf js
ythásitqj js qf hfgfqqjwíf, d js qtx ijráx inxhzwxtx rtxywfgf yjsjw hqfwt d
ijxjskfifit jsyjsinrnjsyt, ij rfsjwf vzj f hfif ufxt ijxfhwjinyfgfs xzx
tgwfx xz oznhnt, d xz oznhnt xzx tgwfx; ujwt js éxyf ijxytx xjlzsitx
ithzrjsytx vzj int f Xfshmt, rtxywó yjsjw lwfs itsfnwj, d uzxt xz
inxhwjhnós d xz qthzwf js zs qjafsyfit uzsyt.

Fyjsyíxnrfrjsyj qj jxhzhmfgf Xfshmt, d uwthzwfgf htsxjwafw js qf rjrtwnf
xzx htsxjotx, htrt vznjs ujsxfgf lzfwifwqtx d xfqnw utw jqqtx f gzjs ufwyt
ij qf uwjñje ij xz ltgnjwst. Uwtxnlznó, uzjx, its Vznotyj, d inot:

-Js qt vzj ythf f hórt mfx ij ltgjwsfw yz ujwxtsf d hfxf, Xfshmt, qt
uwnrjwt vzj yj jshfwlt jx vzj xjfx qnrunt, d vzj yj htwyjx qfx zñfx, xns
ijofwqfx hwjhjw, htrt fqlzstx mfhjs, f vznjs xz nlstwfshnf qjx mf ifit f
jsyjsijw vzj qfx zñfx qfwlfx qjx mjwrtxjfs qfx rfstx, htrt xn fvzjq
jxhwjrjsyt d fñfinizwf vzj xj ijofs ij htwyfw kzjxj zñf, xnjsit fsyjx
lfwwfx ij hjwsíhfqt qflfwynojwt: uzjwht d jcywftwinsfwnt fgzxt. St fsijx,
Xfshmt, ijxhjñnit d kqtot, vzj jq ajxynit ijxhtruzjxyt if nsinhntx ij ásnrt
ijxrfefqfit, xn df qf ijxhtrutxyzwf d kqtojifi st hfj ijgfot ij
xthfwwtsjwíf, htrt xj ozeló js qf ij Ozqnt Héxfw. Ytrf hts inxhwjhnós jq
uzqxt f qt vzj uzinjwj afqjw yz tknhnt, d xn xzkwnjwj vzj ijx qngwjf f yzx
hwnfitx, iáxjqf mtsjxyf d uwtajhmtxf ráx vzj anxytxf d gnefwwf, d wjuáwyjqf
jsywj yzx hwnfitx d qtx utgwjx: vznjwt ijhnw vzj xn mfx ij ajxynw xjnx
ufojx, anxyj ywjx d tywtx ywjx utgwjx, d fxí yjsiwáx ufojx ufwf jq hnjqt d
ufwf jq xzjqt; d jxyj szjat rtit ij ifw qngwjf st qf fqhfsefs qtx
afsflqtwntxtx. St htrfx fotx sn hjgtqqfx, utwvzj st xfvzjs utw jq tqtw yz
anqqfsjwíf. Fsif ijxufhnt; mfgqf hts wjutxt, ujwt st ij rfsjwf vzj ufwjehf
vzj yj jxhzhmfx f yn rnxrt, vzj ytif fkjhyfhnós jx rfqf. Htrj utht d hjsf
ráx utht, vzj qf xfqzi ij ytit jq hzjwut xj kwflzf js qf tknhnsf ijq
jxyórflt. Xé yjruqfit js jq gjgjw, htsxnijwfsit vzj jq anst ijrfxnfit sn
lzfwif xjhwjyt sn hzruqj ufqfgwf. Yjs hzjsyf, Xfshmt, ij st rfxhfw f itx
hfwwnqqtx, sn ij jwzyfw ijqfsyj ij sfinj.

-Jxt ij jwzyfw st jsynjsit -inot Xfshmt.

D its Vznotyj qj inot:

-Jwzyfw, Xfshmt, vznjwj ijhnw wjltqifw, d éxyj jx zst ij qtx ráx ytwujx
athfgqtx vzj ynjsj qf qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf, fzsvzj jx rzd xnsnknhfynat; d fxí,
qf ljsyj hzwntxf xj mf fhtlnit fq qfyís, d fq wjltqifw inhj jwzyfw, d f qtx
wjlüjqitx, jwzyfhntsjx; d, hzfsit fqlzstx st jsynjsijs jxytx yéwrnstx,
nrutwyf utht, vzj jq zxt qtx nwá nsywtizhnjsit hts jq ynjrut, vzj hts
kfhnqnifi xj jsynjsifs; d jxyt jx jswnvzjhjw qf qjslzf, xtgwj vznjs ynjsj
utijw jq azqlt d jq zxt.

-Js ajwifi, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-, vzj zst ij qtx htsxjotx d fanxtx vzj
unjsxt qqjafw js qf rjrtwnf mf ij xjw jq ij st wjltqifw, utwvzj qt xzjqt
mfhjw rzd f rjszit.

-Jwzyfw, Xfshmt, vzj st wjltqifw -inot its Vznotyj.

-Jwzyfw inwé ij fvzí fijqfsyj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d f kjj vzj st xj rj
tqanij.

-Yfrgnés, Xfshmt, st mfx ij rjehqfw js yzx uqáynhfx qf rzhmjizrgwj ij
wjkwfsjx vzj xzjqjx; vzj, uzjxyt vzj qtx wjkwfsjx xts xjsyjshnfx gwjajx,
rzhmfx ajhjx qtx ywfjx yfs utw qtx hfgjqqtx, vzj ráx ufwjhjs inxufwfyjx vzj
xjsyjshnfx.

-Jxt Intx qt uzjij wjrjinfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj xé ráx wjkwfsjx vzj
zs qngwt, d anésjsxjrj yfsytx ozsytx f qf gthf hzfsit mfgqt, vzj wnñjs utw
xfqnw zstx hts tywtx, ujwt qf qjslzf af fwwtofsit qtx uwnrjwtx vzj
jshzjsywf, fzsvzj st ajslfs f ujqt. Rfx dt yjsiwé hzjsyf ij fvzí fijqfsyj
ij ijhnw qtx vzj htsajslfs f qf lwfajifi ij rn hfwlt, vzj js hfxf qqjsf
uwjxyt xj lznxf qf hjsf, d vznjs ijxyfof st gfwfof, d f gzjs xfqat jxyá jq
vzj wjunhf, d jq ifw d jq yjsjw xjxt mf rjsjxyjw.

-¡Jxt xí, Xfshmt! -inot its Vznotyj-: ¡jshfof, jsxfwyf, jsmnqf wjkwfsjx,
vzj sfinj yj af f qf rfst! ¡Hfxyílfrj rn rfiwj, d dt ywórutljqfx! Jxytdyj
inhnjsit vzj jxhzxjx wjkwfsjx, d js zs nsxyfsyj mfx jhmfit fvzí zsf qjyfsíf
ijqqtx, vzj fxí hzfiwfs hts qt vzj afrtx ywfyfsit htrt utw qtx hjwwtx ij
Úgjif. Rnwf, Xfshmt, st yj inlt dt vzj ufwjhj rfq zs wjkwás ywfíit f
uwtuóxnyt, ujwt hfwlfw d jsxfwyfw wjkwfsjx f ywthmj rthmj mfhj qf uqáynhf
ijxrfdfif d gfof. Hzfsit xzgnjwjx f hfgfqqt, st afdfx jhmfsit jq hzjwut
xtgwj jq fweós utxywjwt, sn qqjajx qfx unjwsfx ynjxfx d ynwfifx d ijxanfifx
ij qf gfwwnlf ijq hfgfqqt, sn yfrutht afdfx yfs kqtot vzj ufwjehf vzj afx
xtgwj jq wzhnt: vzj jq fsifw f hfgfqqt f zstx mfhj hfgfqqjwtx; f tywtx,
hfgfqqjwnetx. Xjf rtijwfit yz xzjñt, vzj jq vzj st rfiwzlf hts jq xtq, st
ltef ijq iíf; d fianjwyj, ¡tm Xfshmt!, vzj qf inqnljshnf jx rfiwj ij qf
gzjsf ajsyzwf, d qf ujwjef, xz htsywfwnf, ofráx qqjló fq yéwrnst vzj unij
zs gzjs ijxjt. Jxyj úqynrt htsxjot vzj fmtwf ifwyj vznjwt, uzjxyt vzj st
xnwaf ufwf fitwst ijq hzjwut, vznjwt vzj qj qqjajx rzd js qf rjrtwnf, vzj
hwjt vzj st yj xjwá ij rjstx uwtajhmt vzj qtx vzj mfxyf fvzí yj mj ifit; d
jx vzj ofráx yj utslfx f inxuzyfw ij qnsfojx, f qt rjstx, htrufwásitqtx
jsywj xí, uzjx, utw kzjwef, js qtx vzj xj htrufwfs zst mf ij xjw jq rjotw,
d ijq vzj fgfynjwjx xjwáx fgtwwjhnit, d ijq vzj qjafsyfwjx js snslzsf
rfsjwf uwjrnfit. Yz ajxynit xjwá hfqef jsyjwf, wtunqqf qfwlf, mjwwjwzjqt zs
utht ráx qfwlt; lwjlzjxhtx, sn utw unjsxt, vzj st qjx jxyás gnjs sn f qtx
hfgfqqjwtx sn f qtx ltgjwsfitwjx. Utw fmtwf, jxyt xj rj mf tkwjhnit,
Xfshmt, vzj fhtsxjofwyj; fsifwá jq ynjrut, d, xjlús qfx thfxntsjx, fxí
xjwás rnx ithzrjsytx, htrt yú yjslfx hznifit ij fanxfwrj jq jxyfit js vzj
yj mfqqfwjx.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, gnjs ajt vzj ytit hzfsyt azjxywf rjwhji rj mf
inhmt xts htxfx gzjsfx, xfsyfx d uwtajhmtxfx, ujwt ¿ij vzé mfs ij xjwanw,
xn ij snslzsf rj fhzjwit? Ajwifi xjf vzj fvzjqqt ij st ijofwrj hwjhjw qfx
zñfx d ij hfxfwrj tywf aje, xn xj tkwjhnjwj, st xj rj ufxfwá ijq rflís,
ujwt jxtywtx gfizqfvzjx d jswjitx d wjatqynqqtx, st xj rj fhzjwif sn
fhtwifwá ráx ijqqtx vzj ij qfx szgjx ij fsyfñt, d fxí, xjwá rjsjxyjw vzj xj
rj ijs utw jxhwnyt, vzj, uzjxyt vzj st xé qjjw sn jxhwngnw, dt xj qtx ifwé
f rn htskjxtw ufwf vzj rj qtx jshfoj d wjhfufhnyj hzfsit kzjwj rjsjxyjw.

-¡Fm, ujhfitw ij rí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d vzé rfq ufwjhj js qtx
ltgjwsfitwjx jq st xfgjw qjjw sn jxhwngnw!; utwvzj mfx ij xfgjw, ¡tm
Xfshmt!, vzj st xfgjw zs mtrgwj qjjw, t xjw ezwit, fwlzdj zsf ij itx htxfx:
t vzj kzj mnot ij ufiwjx ijrfxnfit ij mzrnqijx d gfotx, t éq yfs ywfanjxt
d rfqt vzj st uzit jsywfw js jq gzjs zxt sn qf gzjsf ithywnsf. Lwfs kfqyf
jx qf vzj qqjafx htsynlt, d fxí, vzjwwíf vzj fuwjsinjxjx f knwrfw xnvznjwf.

-Gnjs xé knwrfw rn strgwj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj hzfsit kzn uwntxyj js rn
qzlfw, fuwjsií f mfhjw zsfx qjywfx htrt ij rfwhf ij kfwit, vzj ijhífs vzj
ijhíf rn strgwj; hzfsyt ráx, vzj knslnwé vzj yjslt yzqqnif qf rfst ijwjhmf,
d mfwé vzj knwrj tywt utw rí; vzj ufwf ytit mfd wjrjint, xn st jx ufwf qf
rzjwyj; d, yjsnjsit dt jq rfsit d jq ufqt, mfwé qt vzj vznxnjwj; hzfsyt
ráx, vzj jq vzj ynjsj jq ufiwj fqhfqij... D, xnjsit dt ltgjwsfitw, vzj jx
ráx vzj xjw fqhfqij, ¡qqjlftx, vzj qf ijofs ajw! St, xnst utujs d
hfqóñjsrj, vzj ajsiwás utw qfsf d atqajwás ywfxvznqfitx; d f vznjs Intx
vznjwj gnjs, qf hfxf qj xfgj; d qfx sjhjifijx ijq wnht utw xjsyjshnfx ufxfs
js jq rzsit; d, xnésitqt dt, xnjsit ltgjwsfitw d ozsyfrjsyj qngjwfq, htrt
qt unjsxt xjw, st mfgwá kfqyf vzj xj rj ufwjehf. St, xnst mfhjtx rnjq, d
ufufwtx mfs rtxhfx; yfsyt afqjx hzfsyt ynjsjx, ijhíf zsf rn flüjqf, d ijq
mtrgwj fwwfnlfit st yj ajwáx ajslfit.

-¡Tm, rfqinyt xjfx ij Intx, Xfshmt! -inot f jxyf xfeós its Vznotyj-.
¡Xjxjsyf rnq xfyfsfxjx yj qqjajs f yn d f yzx wjkwfsjx! Zsf mtwf mf vzj qtx
jxyáx jsxfwyfsit d iásitrj hts hfif zst ywfltx ij ytwrjsyt. Dt yj fxjlzwt
vzj jxytx wjkwfsjx yj mfs ij qqjafw zs iíf f qf mtwhf; utw jqqtx yj mfs ij
vznyfw jq ltgnjwst yzx afxfqqtx, t mf ij mfgjw jsywj jqqtx htrzsnifijx.
Inrj, ¿iósij qtx mfqqfx, nlstwfsyj, t hórt qtx fuqnhfx, rjsyjhfyt, vzj ufwf
ijhnw dt zst d fuqnhfwqj gnjs, xzit d ywfgfot htrt xn hfafxj?

-Utw Intx, xjñtw szjxywt frt -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj azjxf rjwhji xj vzjof ij
gnjs uthfx htxfx. ¿F vzé infgqtx xj uziwj ij vzj dt rj xnwaf ij rn
mfhnjsif, vzj snslzsf tywf yjslt, sn tywt hfzifq fqlzst, xnst wjkwfsjx d
ráx wjkwfsjx? D fmtwf xj rj tkwjhjs hzfywt vzj ajsífs fvzí unsynufwfitx, t
htrt ujwfx js yfgfvzj, ujwt st qtx inwé, utwvzj fq gzjs hfqqfw qqfrfs
Xfshmt.

-Jxj Xfshmt st jwjx yú -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj st xóqt st jwjx gzjs
hfqqfw, xnst rfq mfgqfw d rfq utwknfw; d, hts ytit jxt, vzjwwíf xfgjw vzé
hzfywt wjkwfsjx yj thzwwífs fmtwf f qf rjrtwnf vzj ajsífs fvzí f uwtuóxnyt,
vzj dt fsit wjhtwwnjsit qf ríf, vzj qf yjslt gzjsf, d snslzst xj rj tkwjhj.

-¿Vzé rjotwjx -inot Xfshmt- vzj "jsywj itx rzjqfx htwifqjx szshf utslfx yzx
uzqlfwjx", d "f nitx ij rn hfxf d vzé vzjwénx hts rn rzojw, st mfd
wjxutsijw", d "xn if jq hásyfwt js qf unjiwf t qf unjiwf js jq hásyfwt, rfq
ufwf jq hásyfwt", ytitx qtx hzfqjx anjsjs f ujqt? Vzj sfinj xj ytrj hts xz
ltgjwsfitw sn hts jq vzj qj rfsif, utwvzj xfqiwá qfxynrfit, htrt jq vzj
utsj jq ijit jsywj itx rzjqfx htwifqjx, d fzsvzj st xjfs htwifqjx, htrt
xjfs rzjqfx, st nrutwyf; d f qt vzj inojwj jq ltgjwsfitw st mfd vzj
wjuqnhfw, htrt fq "xfqítx ij rn hfxf d vzé vzjwénx hts rn rzojw". Uzjx qt
ij qf unjiwf js jq hásyfwt zs hnjlt qt ajwá. Fxí vzj, jx rjsjxyjw vzj jq
vzj ajj qf rtyf js jq tot fojst, ajf qf anlf js jq xzdt, utwvzj st xj inlf
utw éq: "jxufsyóxj qf rzjwyf ij qf ijltqqfif", d azjxywf rjwhji xfgj gnjs
vzj ráx xfgj jq sjhnt js xz hfxf vzj jq hzjwit js qf fojsf.

-Jxt st, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj jq sjhnt js xz hfxf sn js qf
fojsf xfgj sfif, f hfzxf vzj xtgwj jq fzrjsyt ij qf sjhjifi st fxnjsyf
snslús inxhwjyt jinknhnt. D ijojrtx jxyt fvzí, Xfshmt, vzj xn rfq
ltgjwsfwjx, yzdf xjwá qf hzquf, d ríf qf ajwlüjsef; rfx htsxzéqtrj vzj mj
mjhmt qt vzj ijgíf js fhtsxjofwyj hts qfx ajwfx d hts qf inxhwjhnós f rí
utxngqj: hts jxyt xfqlt ij rn tgqnlfhnós d ij rn uwtrjxf. Intx yj lzíj,
Xfshmt, d yj ltgnjwsj js yz ltgnjwst, d f rí rj xfvzj ijq jxhwúuzqt vzj rj
vzjif vzj mfx ij ifw hts ytif qf ísxzqf ufyfx fwwngf, htxf vzj uzinjwf dt
jxhzxfw hts ijxhzgwnw fq izvzj vznés jwjx, inhnésitqj vzj ytif jxf ltwizwf
d jxf ujwxtsnqqf vzj ynjsjx st jx tywf htxf vzj zs htxyfq qqjst ij wjkwfsjx
d ij rfqnhnfx.

-Xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, xn f azjxywf rjwhji qj ufwjhj vzj st xtd ij uwt
ufwf jxyj ltgnjwst, ijxij fvzí qj xzjqyt, vzj ráx vznjwt zs xtqt sjlwt ij
qf zñf ij rn fqrf vzj f ytit rn hzjwut; d fxí rj xzxyjsyfwé Xfshmt f xjhfx
hts ufs d hjgtqqf, htrt ltgjwsfitw hts ujwinhjx d hfutsjx; d ráx vzj,
rnjsywfx xj izjwrj, ytitx xts nlzfqjx, qtx lwfsijx d qtx rjstwjx, qtx
utgwjx d qtx wnhtx; d xn azjxywf rjwhji rnwf js jqqt, ajwá vzj xóqt azjxywf
rjwhji rj mf uzjxyt js jxyt ij ltgjwsfw: vzj dt st xé ráx ij ltgnjwstx ij
ísxzqfx vzj zs gznywj; d xn xj nrflnsf vzj utw xjw ltgjwsfitw rj mf ij
qqjafw jq infgqt, ráx rj vznjwt nw Xfshmt fq hnjqt vzj ltgjwsfitw fq
nsknjwst.

-Utw Intx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj, utw xtqfx jxyfx úqynrfx wfetsjx
vzj mfx inhmt, ozelt vzj rjwjhjx xjw ltgjwsfitw ij rnq ísxzqfx: gzjs
sfyzwfq ynjsjx, xns jq hzfq st mfd hnjshnf vzj afqlf; jshtrnésifyj f Intx,
d uwthzwf st jwwfw js qf uwnrjwf nsyjshnós; vznjwt ijhnw vzj xnjruwj yjslfx
nsyjsyt d knwrj uwtuóxnyt ij fhjwyfw js hzfsytx sjlthntx yj thzwwnjwjs,
utwvzj xnjruwj kfatwjhj jq hnjqt qtx gzjstx ijxjtx. D aártstx f htrjw, vzj
hwjt vzj df jxytx xjñtwjx stx flzfwifs.





Hfuíyzqt CQNA. Hórt Xfshmt Ufsef kzj qqjafit fq ltgnjwst, d ij qf jxywfñf
fajsyzwf vzj js jq hfxynqqt xzhjinó f its Vznotyj


Inhjs vzj js jq uwtunt twnlnsfq ijxyf mnxytwnf xj qjj vzj, qqjlfsit Hnij
Mfrjyj f jxhwngnw jxyj hfuíyzqt, st qj ywfizot xz nsyéwuwjyj htrt éq qj
mfgíf jxhwnyt, vzj kzj zs rtit ij vzjof vzj yzat jq rtwt ij xí rnxrt, utw
mfgjw ytrfit jsywj rfstx zsf mnxytwnf yfs xjhf d yfs qnrnyfif htrt jxyf ij
its Vznotyj, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj xnjruwj mfgíf ij mfgqfw iéq d ij Xfshmt, xns
txfw jxyjsijwxj f tywfx inlwjxntsjx d junxtintx ráx lwfajx d ráx
jsywjyjsnitx; d ijhíf vzj jq nw xnjruwj fyjsnit jq jsyjsinrnjsyt, qf rfst d
qf uqzrf f jxhwngnw ij zs xtqt xzojyt d mfgqfw utw qfx gthfx ij uthfx
ujwxtsfx jwf zs ywfgfot nshtrutwyfgqj, hzdt kwzyt st wjizsifgf js jq ij xz
fzytw, d vzj, utw mznw ijxyj nshtsajsnjsyj, mfgíf zxfit js qf uwnrjwf ufwyj
ijq fwynknhnt ij fqlzsfx stajqfx, htrt kzjwts qf ijq Hzwntxt nrujwynsjsyj d
qf ijq Hfunyás hfzynat, vzj jxyás htrt xjufwfifx ij qf mnxytwnf, uzjxyt vzj
qfx ijráx vzj fqqí xj hzjsyfs xts hfxtx xzhjinitx fq rnxrt its Vznotyj, vzj
st utiífs ijofw ij jxhwngnwxj. Yfrgnés ujsxó, htrt éq inhj, vzj rzhmtx,
qqjafitx ij qf fyjshnós vzj unijs qfx mfefñfx ij its Vznotyj, st qf ifwífs
f qfx stajqfx, d ufxfwífs utw jqqfx, t hts uwnjxf t hts jskfit, xns
fiajwynw qf lfqf d fwynknhnt vzj js xí htsynjsjs, jq hzfq xj rtxywfwf gnjs
fq ijxhzgnjwyt hzfsit, utw xí xtqfx, xns fwwnrfwxj f qfx qthzwfx ij its
Vznotyj sn f qfx xfsijhjx ij Xfshmt, xfqnjwfs f qze. D fxí, js jxyf xjlzsif
ufwyj st vznxt nsljwnw stajqfx xzjqyfx sn ujlfinefx, xnst fqlzstx junxtintx
vzj qt ufwjhnjxjs, sfhnitx ij qtx rjxrtx xzhjxtx vzj qf ajwifi tkwjhj; d
fzs éxytx, qnrnyfifrjsyj d hts xtqfx qfx ufqfgwfx vzj gfxyfs f
ijhqfwfwqtx; d, uzjx xj htsynjsj d hnjwwf js qtx jxywjhmtx qírnyjx ij qf
sfwwfhnós, yjsnjsit mfgnqnifi, xzknhnjshnf d jsyjsinrnjsyt ufwf ywfyfw ijq
zsnajwxt ytit, unij st xj ijxuwjhnj xz ywfgfot, d xj qj ijs fqfgfsefx, st
utw qt vzj jxhwngj, xnst utw qt vzj mf ijofit ij jxhwngnw.

D qzjlt uwtxnlzj qf mnxytwnf inhnjsit vzj, js fhfgfsit ij htrjw its
Vznotyj, jq iíf vzj int qtx htsxjotx f Xfshmt, fvzjqqf yfwij xj qtx int
jxhwnytx, ufwf vzj éq gzxhfxj vznjs xj qtx qjdjxj; ujwt, fujsfx xj qtx mzgt
ifit, hzfsit xj qj hfdjwts d ansnjwts f rfstx ijq izvzj, vzj qtx htrzsnhó
hts qf izvzjxf, d qtx itx xj firnwfwts ij szjat ij qf qthzwf d ijq nsljsnt
ij its Vznotyj; d fxí, qqjafsit fijqfsyj xzx gzwqfx, fvzjqqf yfwij jsanfwts
f Xfshmt hts rzhmt fhtrufñfrnjsyt fq qzlfw vzj ufwf éq mfgíf ij xjw ísxzqf.

Fhfjhnó, uzjx, vzj jq vzj qj qqjafgf f hfwlt jwf zs rfdtwitrt ijq izvzj,
rzd inxhwjyt d rzd lwfhntxt -vzj st uzjij mfgjw lwfhnf itsij st mfd
inxhwjhnós-, jq hzfq mfgíf mjhmt qf ujwxtsf ij qf htsijxf Ywnkfqin, hts jq
itsfnwj vzj vzjif wjkjwnit; d hts jxyt, d hts nw nsizxywnfit ij xzx
xjñtwjx ij hórt xj mfgíf ij mfgjw hts Xfshmt, xfqnó hts xz nsyjsyt
rfwfanqqtxfrjsyj. Inlt, uzjx, vzj fhfjhnó vzj, fxí htrt Xfshmt ant fq yfq
rfdtwitrt, xj qj knlzwó js xz wtxywt jq rjxrt ij qf Ywnkfqin, d,
atqanésitxj f xz xjñtw, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, t f rí rj mf ij qqjafw jq infgqt ij fvzí ij itsij jxytd, js ozxyt
d js hwjdjsyj, t azjxywf rjwhji rj mf ij htskjxfw vzj jq wtxywt ijxyj
rfdtwitrt ijq izvzj, vzj fvzí jxyá, jx jq rjxrt ij qf Itqtwnif.

Rnwó its Vznotyj fyjsyfrjsyj fq rfdtwitrt, d, mfgnésitqj rnwfit, inot f
Xfshmt:

-St mfd ufwf vzé yj qqjaj jq infgqt, Xfshmt, sn js ozxyt sn js hwjdjsyj,
vzj st xé qt vzj vznjwjx ijhnw; vzj jq wtxywt ij qf Itqtwnif jx jq ijq
rfdtwitrt, ujwt st utw jxt jq rfdtwitrt jx qf Itqtwnif; vzj, f xjwqt,
nruqnhfwíf htsywfinhnós rzd lwfsij, d st jx ynjrut fmtwf ij mfhjw jxyfx
fajwnlzfhntsjx, vzj xjwíf jsywfwstx js nsywnhfitx qfgjwnsytx. Hwéjrj,
frnlt, vzj jx rjsjxyjw wtlfw f Szjxywt Xjñtw rzd ij ajwfx vzj stx qngwj f
qtx itx ij rfqtx mjhmnhjwtx d ij rfqtx jshfsyfitwjx.

-St jx gzwqf, xjñtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, xnst vzj ijsfsyjx qj tí mfgqfw, d st
ufwjhnó xnst vzj qf ate ij qf Ywnkfqin rj xtsfgf js qtx tíitx. Fmtwf gnjs,
dt hfqqfwé, ujwt st ijofwé ij fsifw fiajwynit ij fvzí fijqfsyj, f ajw xn
ijxhzgwj tywf xjñfq vzj htsknwrj t ijxkflf rn xtxujhmf.

-Fxí qt mfx ij mfhjw, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, d ifwáxrj fanxt ij ytit qt
vzj js jxyj hfxt ijxhzgwnjwjx d ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj js jq ltgnjwst yj
xzhjinjwj.

Xfqnó, js kns, Xfshmt, fhtrufñfit ij rzhmf ljsyj, ajxynit f qt qjywfit, d
jshnrf zs lfgás rzd fshmt ij hmfrjqtyj ij flzfx qjtsfit, hts zsf rtsyjwf ij
qt rjxrt, xtgwj zs rfhmt f qf onsjyf, d ijywáx iéq, utw twijs ijq izvzj,
ngf jq wzhnt hts ofjhjx d twsfrjsytx ozrjsynqjx ij xjif d kqfrfsyjx. Atqaíf
Xfshmt qf hfgjef ij hzfsit js hzfsit f rnwfw f xz fxst, hts hzdf htrufñíf
ngf yfs htsyjsyt vzj st xj ywthfwf hts jq jrujwfitw ij Fqjrfñf.

Fq ijxujinwxj ij qtx izvzjx, qjx gjxó qfx rfstx, d ytró qf gjsinhnós ij xz
xjñtw, vzj xj qf int hts qálwnrfx, d Xfshmt qf wjhngnó hts uzhmjwnytx.

Ijof, qjhytw frfgqj, nw js ufe d js mtwf gzjsf fq gzjs Xfshmt, d jxujwf itx
kfsjlfx ij wnxf, vzj yj mf ij hfzxfw jq xfgjw hórt xj utwyó js xz hfwlt, d,
js yfsyt, fynjsij f xfgjw qt vzj qj ufxó f xz frt fvzjqqf sthmj; vzj xn hts
jqqt st wnjwjx, utw qt rjstx ijxuqjlfwáx qtx qfgntx hts wnxf ij onrnf,
utwvzj qtx xzhjxtx ij its Vznotyj, t xj mfs ij hjqjgwfw hts firnwfhnós, t
hts wnxf.

Hzésyfxj, uzjx, vzj, fujsfx xj mzgt ufwynit Xfshmt, hzfsit its Vznotyj
xnsynó xz xtqjifi; d xn qj kzjwf utxngqj wjathfwqj qf htrnxnós d vznyfwqj
jq ltgnjwst, qt mnhnjwf. Htsthnó qf izvzjxf xz rjqfshtqíf, d uwjlzsyóqj vzj
ij vzé jxyfgf ywnxyj; vzj xn jwf utw qf fzxjshnf ij Xfshmt, vzj jxhzijwtx,
izjñfx d itshjqqfx mfgíf js xz hfxf vzj qj xjwanwífs rzd f xfynxkfhnós ij
xz ijxjt.

-Ajwifi jx, xjñtwf ríf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj xnjsyt qf fzxjshnf ij
Xfshmt, ujwt st jx éxf qf hfzxf uwnshnufq vzj rj mfhj ufwjhjw vzj jxytd
ywnxyj, d, ij qtx rzhmtx tkwjhnrnjsytx vzj azjxywf jchjqjshnf rj mfhj,
xtqfrjsyj fhjuyt d jxhtot jq ij qf atqzsyfi hts vzj xj rj mfhjs, d, js qt
ijráx, xzuqnht f Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf vzj ijsywt ij rn futxjsyt htsxnjsyf d
ujwrnyf vzj dt xtqt xjf jq vzj rj xnwaf.

-Js ajwifi -inot qf izvzjxf-, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj st mf ij xjw fxí: vzj
qj mfs ij xjwanw hzfywt itshjqqfx ij qfx rífx, mjwrtxfx htrt zsfx kqtwjx.

-Ufwf rí -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- st xjwás jqqfx htrt kqtwjx, xnst htrt
jxunsfx vzj rj uzshjs jq fqrf. Fxí jsywfwás jqqfx js rn futxjsyt, sn htxf
vzj qt ufwjehf, htrt atqfw. Xn jx vzj azjxywf lwfsijef vznjwj qqjafw
fijqfsyj jq mfhjwrj rjwhji xns dt rjwjhjwqf, iéojrj vzj dt rj qfx mfdf
htsrnlt, d vzj dt rj xnwaf ij rnx uzjwyfx fijsywt, vzj dt utslf zsf rzwfqqf
js rjint ij rnx ijxjtx d ij rn mtsjxynifi; d st vznjwt ujwijw jxyf
htxyzrgwj utw qf qngjwfqnifi vzj azjxywf fqyjef vznjwj rtxywfw htsrnlt. D,
js wjxtqzhnós, fsyjx itwrnwé ajxynit vzj htsxjsynw vzj sfinj rj ijxszij.

-St ráx, st ráx, xjñtw its Vznotyj -wjuqnhó qf izvzjxf-. Utw rí inlt vzj
ifwé twijs vzj sn fzs zsf rtxhf jsywj js xz jxyfshnf, st vzj zsf itshjqqf;
st xtd dt ujwxtsf, vzj utw rí xj mf ij ijxhfgfqfw qf ijhjshnf ijq xjñtw its
Vznotyj; vzj, xjlús xj rj mf ywfxqzhnit, qf vzj ráx hfrujf jsywj xzx rzhmfx
anwyzijx jx qf ij qf mtsjxynifi. Ijxsúijxj azjxf rjwhji d aíxyfxj f xzx
xtqfx d f xz rtit, htrt d hzfsit vznxnjwj, vzj st mfgwá vznjs qt nrunif,
uzjx ijsywt ij xz futxjsyt mfqqfwá qtx afxtx sjhjxfwntx fq rjsjxyjw ijq vzj
izjwrj f uzjwyf hjwwfif, utwvzj snslzsf sfyzwfq sjhjxnifi qj tgqnlzj f vzj
qf fgwf. Anaf rnq xnlqtx qf lwfs Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, d xjf xz strgwj
jxyjsinit utw ytif qf wjitsije ij qf ynjwwf, uzjx rjwjhnó xjw frfif ij yfs
afqnjsyj d yfs mtsjxyt hfgfqqjwt, d qtx gjsnlstx hnjqtx nskzsifs js jq
htwfeós ij Xfshmt Ufsef, szjxywt ltgjwsfitw, zs ijxjt ij fhfgfw uwjxyt xzx
inhnuqnsfx, ufwf vzj azjqaf f ltefw jq rzsit ij qf gjqqjef ij yfs lwfs
xjñtwf.

F qt hzfq inot its Vznotyj:

-Azjxywf fqynyzi mf mfgqfit htrt vznjs jx, vzj js qf gthf ij qfx gzjsfx
xjñtwfx st mf ij mfgjw snslzsf vzj xjf rfqf; d ráx ajsyzwtxf d ráx htsthnif
xjwá js jq rzsit Izqhnsjf utw mfgjwqf fqfgfit azjxywf lwfsijef, vzj utw
ytifx qfx fqfgfsefx vzj uzjifs ifwqj qtx ráx jqthzjsyjx ij qf ynjwwf.

-Fltwf gnjs, xjñtw its Vznotyj -wjuqnhó qf izvzjxf-, qf mtwf ij hjsfw xj
qqjlf, d jq izvzj ijgj ij jxujwfw: ajslf azjxf rjwhji d hjsjrtx, d
fhtxyfwáxj yjruwfst, vzj jq anfoj vzj fdjw mnet ij Hfsifdf st kzj yfs htwyt
vzj st mfdf hfzxfit fqlús rtqnrnjsyt.

-St xnjsyt snslzst, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj txfwé ozwfw f
Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf vzj js rn anif mj xzgnit xtgwj gjxynf ráx wjutxfif sn ij
rjotw ufxt vzj Hqfanqjñt; d st xé dt vzé qj uzit rtajw f Rfqfrgwzst ufwf
ijxmfhjwxj ij yfs qnljwf d yfs ljsynq hfgfqlfizwf, d fgwfxfwqf fxí, xns ráx
sn ráx.

-F jxt xj uzjij nrflnsfw -wjxutsinó qf izvzjxf- vzj, fwwjujsynit ijq rfq
vzj mfgíf mjhmt f qf Ywnkfqin d htrufñíf, d f tywfx ujwxtsfx, d ij qfx
rfqifijx vzj htrt mjhmnhjwt d jshfsyfitw ijgíf ij mfgjw htrjynit, vznxt
htshqznw hts ytitx qtx nsxywzrjsytx ij xz tknhnt, d, htrt f uwnshnufq d vzj
ráx qj ywfíf ijxfxtxjlfit, aflfsit ij ynjwwf js ynjwwf, fgwfxó f Hqfanqjñt;
vzj hts xzx fgwfxfifx hjsnefx d hts jq ywtkjt ijq hfwyjq vzjif jyjwst jq
afqtw ijq lwfs its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf.

Ij szjat szjafx lwfhnfx int its Vznotyj f qf izvzjxf, d, js hjsfsit, its
Vznotyj xj wjynwó js xz futxjsyt xtqt, xns htsxjsynw vzj sfinj jsywfxj hts
éq f xjwanwqj: yfsyt xj yjríf ij jshtsywfw thfxntsjx vzj qj rtanjxjs t
ktwefxjs f ujwijw jq mtsjxyt ijhtwt vzj f xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf lzfwifgf,
xnjruwj uzjxyf js qf nrflnsfhnós qf gtsifi ij Frfiíx, kqtw d jxujot ij qtx
fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx. Hjwwó ywfx xí qf uzjwyf, d f qf qze ij itx ajqfx ij
hjwf xj ijxszió, d fq ijxhfqefwxj -¡tm ijxlwfhnf nsinlsf ij yfq ujwxtsf!-
xj qj xtqyfwts, st xzxunwtx, sn tywf htxf, vzj ijxfhwjinyfxjs qf qnrunjef
ij xz utqnhíf, xnst mfxyf itx ithjsfx ij uzsytx ij zsf rjinf, vzj vzjió
mjhmf hjqtxíf. Fkqnlnóxj js jxywjrt jq gzjs xjñtw, d injwf éq utw yjsjw
fqqí zs fifwrj ij xjif ajwij zsf tsef ij uqfyf; inlt xjif ajwij utwvzj qfx
rjinfx jwfs ajwijx.

Fvzí jchqfró Gjsjsljqn, d, jxhwngnjsit, inot ''¡Tm utgwjef, utgwjef! ¡St xé
dt hts vzé wfeós xj rtanó fvzjq lwfs utjyf htwitgéx f qqfrfwyj

iáinaf xfsyf ijxflwfijhnif!

Dt, fzsvzj rtwt, gnjs xé, utw qf htrzsnhfhnós vzj mj yjsnit hts hwnxynfstx,
vzj qf xfsynifi htsxnxyj js qf hfwnifi, mzrnqifi, kjj, tgjinjshnf d
utgwjef; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, inlt vzj mf ij yjsjw rzhmt ij Intx jq vzj xj
ansnjwj f htsyjsyfw hts xjw utgwj, xn st jx ij fvzjq rtit ij utgwjef ij
vznjs inhj zst ij xzx rfdtwjx xfsytx: "Yjsji ytifx qfx htxfx htrt xn st qfx
yzanéxjijx"; d f jxyt qqfrfs utgwjef ij jxuíwnyz; ujwt yú, xjlzsif utgwjef,
vzj jwjx ij qf vzj dt mfgqt, ¿utw vzé vznjwjx jxywjqqfwyj hts qtx mnifqltx
d gnjs sfhnitx ráx vzj hts qf tywf ljsyj? ¿Utw vzé qtx tgqnlfx f ifw
ufsyfqnf f qtx efufytx, d f vzj qtx gtytsjx ij xzx wtunqqfx zstx xjfs ij
xjif, tywtx ij hjwifx, d tywtx ij aniwt? ¿Utw vzé xzx hzjqqtx, utw qf rfdtw
ufwyj, mfs ij xjw xnjruwj jxhfwtqfitx, d st fgnjwytx hts rtqij?'' D js jxyt
xj jhmfwá ij ajw vzj jx fsynlzt jq zxt ijq fqrniós d ij qtx hzjqqtx
fgnjwytx. D uwtxnlznó: ''¡Rnxjwfgqj ijq gnjs sfhnit vzj af ifsit unxytx f
xz mtswf, htrnjsit rfq d f uzjwyf hjwwfif, mfhnjsit mnuóhwnyf fq ufqnqqt ij
injsyjx hts vzj xfqj f qf hfqqj ijxuzéx ij st mfgjw htrnit htxf vzj qj
tgqnlzj f qnrunáwxjqtx! ¡Rnxjwfgqj ij fvzjq, inlt, vzj ynjsj qf mtswf
jxufsyfinef, d unjsxf vzj ijxij zsf qjlzf xj qj ijxhzgwj jq wjrnjsit ijq
efufyt, jq ywfxzitw ijq xtrgwjwt, qf mnqfef ijq mjwwjwzjqt d qf mfrgwj ij
xz jxyórflt!''

Ytit jxyt xj qj wjstaó f its Vznotyj js qf xtqyzwf ij xzx uzsytx, ujwt
htsxtqóxj hts ajw vzj Xfshmt qj mfgíf ijofit zsfx gtyfx ij hfrnst, vzj
ujsxó utsjwxj tywt iíf. Knsfqrjsyj, éq xj wjhtxyó ujsxfynat d ujxfwtxt, fxí
ij qf kfqyf vzj Xfshmt qj mfhíf htrt ij qf nswjufwfgqj ijxlwfhnf ij xzx
rjinfx, f vznjs ytrfwf qtx uzsytx, fzsvzj kzjwf hts xjif ij tywf htqtw, vzj
jx zsf ij qfx rfdtwjx xjñfqjx ij rnxjwnf vzj zs mnifqlt uzjij ifw js jq
inxhzwxt ij xz uwtqnof jxywjhmjef. Rfyó qfx ajqfx; mfhíf hfqtw d st utiíf
itwrnw; qjafsyóxj ijq qjhmt d fgwnó zs utht qf ajsyfsf ij zsf wjof vzj ifgf
xtgwj zs mjwrtxt ofwiís, d, fq fgwnwqf, xnsynó d tdó vzj fsifgf d mfgqfgf
ljsyj js jq ofwiís. Uúxtxj f jxhzhmfw fyjsyfrjsyj. Qjafsyfwts qf ate qtx ij
fgfot, yfsyt, vzj uzit tíw jxyfx wfetsjx:

-St rj utwkíjx, ¡tm Jrjwjshnf!, vzj hfsyj, uzjx xfgjx vzj, ijxij jq uzsyt
vzj jxyj ktwfxyjwt jsywó js jxyj hfxynqqt d rnx totx qj rnwfwts, dt st xé
hfsyfw, xnst qqtwfw; hzfsyt ráx, vzj jq xzjñt ij rn xjñtwf ynjsj ráx ij
qnljwt vzj ij ujxfit, d st vzjwwíf vzj stx mfqqfxj fvzí utw ytit jq yjxtwt
ijq rzsit. D, uzjxyt hfxt vzj izwrnjxj d st ijxujwyfxj, js afst xjwíf rn
hfsyt xn izjwrj d st ijxunjwyf ufwf tíwqj jxyj szjat Jsjfx, vzj mf qqjlfit
f rnx wjlntsjx ufwf ijofwrj jxhfwsnif.

-St ijx js jxt, Fqynxnitwf frnlf -wjxutsinjwts-, vzj xns izif qf izvzjxf d
hzfsytx mfd js jxf hfxf izjwrjs, xn st jx jq xjñtw ij yz htwfeós d jq
ijxujwyfitw ij yz fqrf, utwvzj fmtwf xjsyí vzj fgwíf qf ajsyfsf ij qf wjof
ij xz jxyfshnf, d xns izif ijgj ij jxyfw ijxunjwyt; hfsyf, qfxynrfif ríf,
js ytst gfot d xzfaj fq xts ij yz fwuf, d, hzfsit qf izvzjxf stx xnjsyf, qj
jhmfwjrtx qf hzquf fq hfqtw vzj mfhj.

-St jxyá js jxt jq uzsyt, ¡tm Jrjwjshnf! -wjxutsinó qf Fqynxnitwf-, xnst js
vzj st vzjwwíf vzj rn hfsyt ijxhzgwnjxj rn htwfeós d kzjxj ozelfif ij qtx
vzj st ynjsjs stynhnf ij qfx kzjwefx utijwtxfx ij frtw utw itshjqqf
fsytofinef d qnanfsf. Ujwt ajslf qt vzj ansnjwj, vzj ráx afqj ajwlüjsef js
hfwf vzj rfshnqqf js htwfeós.

D, js jxyt, xnsynó ythfw zsf fwuf xzfaíxnrfrjsyj. Tdjsit qt hzfq, vzjió its
Vznotyj ufxrfit, utwvzj js fvzjq nsxyfsyj xj qj ansnjwts f qf rjrtwnf qfx
nsknsnyfx fajsyzwfx xjrjofsyjx f fvzéqqf, ij ajsyfsfx, wjofx d ofwinsjx,
rúxnhfx, wjvznjgwtx d ijxafsjhnrnjsytx vzj js qtx xzx ijxafsjhnitx qngwtx
ij hfgfqqjwífx mfgíf qjíit. Qzjlt nrflnsó vzj fqlzsf itshjqqf ij qf izvzjxf
jxyfgf iéq jsfrtwfif, d vzj qf mtsjxynifi qf ktwefgf f yjsjw xjhwjyf xz
atqzsyfi; yjrnó st qj wnsinjxj, d uwtuzxt js xz ujsxfrnjsyt jq st ijofwxj
ajshjw; d, jshtrjsiásitxj ij ytit gzjs ásnrt d gzjs yfqfsyj f xz xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, ijyjwrnsó ij jxhzhmfw qf rúxnhf; d, ufwf ifw f
jsyjsijw vzj fqqí jxyfgf, int zs knslnit jxytwszit, ij vzj st utht xj
fqjlwfwts qfx itshjqqfx, vzj tywf htxf st ijxjfgfs xnst vzj its Vznotyj qfx
tdjxj. Wjhtwwnif, uzjx, d fknsfif qf fwuf, Fqynxnitwf int uwnshnunt f jxyj
wtrfshj:

   -¡Tm, yú, vzj jxyáx js yz qjhmt,
   jsywj xágfsfx ij mtqfsif,
   izwrnjsit f unjwsf yjsinif
   ij qf sthmj f qf rfñfsf,
   hfgfqqjwt jq ráx afqnjsyj
   vzj mf uwtizhnit qf Rfshmf,
   ráx mtsjxyt d ráx gjsinyt
   vzj jq twt knst ij Fwfgnf!
   Tdj f zsf ywnxyj itshjqqf,
   gnjs hwjhnif d rfq qtlwfif,
   vzj js qf qze ij yzx itx xtqjx
   xj xnjsyj fgwfxfw jq fqrf.
   Yú gzxhfx yzx fajsyzwfx,
   d fojsfx ijxinhmfx mfqqfx;
   ifx qfx kjwnifx, d snjlfx
   jq wjrjint ij xfsfwqfx.
   Inrj, afqjwtxt otajs,
   vzj Intx uwtxujwj yzx fsxnfx,
   xn yj hwnfxyj js qf Qngnf,
   t js qfx rtsyfñfx ij Ofhf;
   xn xnjwujx yj injwts qjhmj;
   xn, f inhmf, kzjwts yzx frfx
   qf fxujwjef ij qfx xjqafx
   d jq mtwwtw ij qfx rtsyfñfx.
   Rzd gnjs uzjij Izqhnsjf,
   itshjqqf wtqqnef d xfsf,
   uwjhnfwxj ij vzj mf wjsinit
   f zsf ynlwj d knjwf gwfaf.
   Utw jxyt xjwá kfrtxf
   ijxij Mjsfwjx f Ofwfrf,
   ijxij jq Yfot f Rfsefsfwjx,
   ijxij Unxzjwlf mfxyf Fwqfsef.
   Ywtháwjrj dt utw jqqf,
   d injwf jshnrf zsf xfdf
   ij qfx ráx lfdfifx rífx,
   vzj ij twt qj fitwsfs kwfsofx.
   ¡Tm, vznés xj anjwf js yzx gwfetx,
   t xn st, ozsyt f yz hfrf,
   wfxhásityj qf hfgjef
   d rfyásityj qf hfxuf!
   Rzhmt unit, d st xtd inlsf
   ij rjwhji yfs xjñfqfif:
   qtx unjx vznxnjwf ywfjwyj,
   vzj f zsf mzrnqij jxyt qj gfxyf.
   ¡Tm, vzé ij htknfx yj injwf,
   vzé ij jxhfwunsjx ij uqfyf,
   vzé ij hfqefx ij ifrfxht,
   vzé ij mjwwjwzjqtx ij mtqfsif!
   ¡Vzé ij knsíxnrfx ujwqfx,
   hfif hzfq htrt zsf flfqqf,
   vzj, f st yjsjw htrufñjwfx,
   Qfx xtqfx kzjwfs qqfrfifx!
   St rnwjx ij yz Yfwujdf
   jxyj nshjsint vzj rj fgwfxf,
   Sjwós rfshmjlt ijq rzsit,
   sn qj fanajx hts yz xfñf.
   Snñf xtd, uzqhjqf ynjwsf,
   rn jifi ij vznshj st ufxf:
   hfytwhj yjslt d ywjx rjxjx,
   yj ozwt js Intx d js rn ásnrf.
   St xtd wjshf, sn xtd htof,
   sn yjslt sfif ij rfshf;
   qtx hfgjqqtx, htrt qnwntx,
   vzj, js unj, utw jq xzjqt fwwfxywfs.
   D, fzsvzj jx rn gthf flznqjñf
   d qf sfwne fqlt hmfyf,
   xjw rnx injsyjx ij ytufhntx
   rn gjqqjef fq hnjqt jsxfqef.
   Rn ate, df ajx, xn rj jxhzhmfx,
   vzj f qf vzj jx ráx izqhj nlzfqf,
   d xtd ij inxutxnhnós
   fqlt rjstx vzj rjinfsf.
   Jxyfx d tywfx lwfhnfx rífx,
   xts ijxutotx ij yz fqofgf;
   ijxyf hfxf xtd itshjqqf,
   d Fqynxnitwf rj qqfrfs.

Fvzí int kns jq hfsyt ij qf rfqkjwnif Fqynxnitwf, d htrjseó jq fxtrgwt ijq
wjvznwnit its Vznotyj, jq hzfq, ifsit zs lwfs xzxunwt, inot jsywj xí:

-¡Vzj yjslt ij xjw yfs ijxinhmfit fsifsyj, vzj st mf ij mfgjw itshjqqf vzj
rj rnwj vzj ij rí st xj jsfrtwj...! ¡Vzj yjslf ij xjw yfs htwyf ij ajsyzwf
qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj st qf mfs ij ijofw f xtqfx ltefw ij qf
nshtrufwfgqj knwrjef ríf...! ¿Vzé qf vzjwénx, wjnsfx? ¿F vzé qf ujwxjlzíx,
jrujwfywnhjx? ¿Ufwf vzé qf fhtxánx, itshjqqfx ij f hfytwhj f vznshj fñtx?
Ijofi, ijofi f qf rnxjwfgqj vzj ywnzskj, xj lthj d zkfsj hts qf xzjwyj vzj
Frtw vznxt ifwqj js wjsinwqj rn htwfeós d jsywjlfwqj rn fqrf. Rnwfi,
hfyjwaf jsfrtwfif, vzj ufwf xtqf Izqhnsjf xtd ij rfxf d ij fqkjsnvzj, d
ufwf ytifx qfx ijráx xtd ij ujijwsfq; ufwf jqqf xtd rnjq, d ufwf atxtywfx
fhígfw; ufwf rí xtqf Izqhnsjf jx qf mjwrtxf, qf inxhwjyf, qf mtsjxyf, qf
lfqqfwif d qf gnjs sfhnif, d qfx ijráx, qfx kjfx, qfx sjhnfx, qfx qnanfsfx
d qfx ij ujtw qnsfoj; ufwf xjw dt xzdt, d st ij tywf fqlzsf, rj fwwtoó qf
sfyzwfqjef fq rzsit. Qqtwj t hfsyj Fqynxnitwf; ijxjxuéwjxj Rfifrf, utw
vznjs rj futwwjfwts js jq hfxynqqt ijq rtwt jshfsyfit, vzj dt yjslt ij xjw
ij Izqhnsjf, hthnit t fxfit, qnrunt, gnjs hwnfit d mtsjxyt, f ujxfw ij
ytifx qfx utyjxyfijx mjhmnhjwfx ij qf ynjwwf.

D, hts jxyt, hjwwó ij ltquj qf ajsyfsf, d, ijxujhmfit d ujxfwtxt, htrt xn
qj mzgnjwf fhtsyjhnit fqlzsf lwfs ijxlwfhnf, xj fhtxyó js xz qjhmt, itsij
qj ijofwjrtx utw fmtwf, utwvzj stx jxyá qqfrfsit jq lwfs Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj
vznjwj ifw uwnshnunt f xz kfrtxt ltgnjwst.





Hfuíyzqt CQA. Ij hórt jq lwfs Xfshmt Ufsef ytró qf utxjxnós ij xz ísxzqf, d
ijq rtit vzj htrjseó f ltgjwsfw


¡Tm ujwujyzt ijxhzgwnitw ij qtx fsyíutifx, mfhmf ijq rzsit, tot ijq hnjqt,
rjsjt izqhj ij qfx hfsynruqtwfx, Ynrgwnt fvzí, Kjgt fqqí, ynwfitw fhá,
réinht fhzqqá, ufiwj ij qf Utjxíf, nsajsytw ij qf Rúxnhf: yú vzj xnjruwj
xfqjx, d, fzsvzj qt ufwjhj, szshf yj utsjx! F yn inlt, ¡tm xtq, hts hzdf
fdzif jq mtrgwj jsljsiwf fq mtrgwj!; f yn inlt vzj rj kfatwjehfx, d
fqzrgwjx qf jxhzwnifi ij rn nsljsnt, ufwf vzj uzjif inxhzwwnw utw xzx
uzsytx js qf sfwwfhnós ijq ltgnjwst ijq lwfs Xfshmt Ufsef; vzj xns yn, dt
rj xnjsyt yngnt, ijxrfefqfit d htskzxt.

Inlt, uzjx, vzj hts ytit xz fhtrufñfrnjsyt qqjló Xfshmt f zs qzlfw ij mfxyf
rnq ajhnstx, vzj jwf ij qtx rjotwjx vzj jq izvzj yjsíf. Inéwtsqj f jsyjsijw
vzj xj qqfrfgf qf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf, t df utwvzj jq qzlfw xj qqfrfgf
Gfwfyfwnt, t df utw jq gfwfyt hts vzj xj qj mfgíf ifit jq ltgnjwst. Fq
qqjlfw f qfx uzjwyfx ij qf anqqf, vzj jwf hjwhfif, xfqnó jq wjlnrnjsyt ijq
uzjgqt f wjhjgnwqj; ythfwts qfx hfrufsfx, d ytitx qtx ajhnstx injwts
rzjxywfx ij ljsjwfq fqjlwíf, d hts rzhmf utruf qj qqjafwts f qf nlqjxnf
rfdtw f ifw lwfhnfx f Intx, d qzjlt, hts fqlzsfx wniíhzqfx hjwjrtsnfx, qj
jsywjlfwts qfx qqfajx ijq uzjgqt, d qj firnynjwts utw ujwujyzt ltgjwsfitw
ij qf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf.

Jq ywfoj, qfx gfwgfx, qf ltwizwf d ujvzjñje ijq szjat ltgjwsfitw yjsíf
firnwfif f ytif qf ljsyj vzj jq gzxnqnx ijq hzjsyt st xfgíf, d fzs f ytitx
qtx vzj qt xfgífs, vzj jwfs rzhmtx. Knsfqrjsyj, js xfhásitqj ij qf nlqjxnf,
qj qqjafwts f qf xnqqf ijq ozelfit d qj xjsyfwts js jqqf; d jq rfdtwitrt
ijq izvzj qj inot:

-Jx htxyzrgwj fsynlzf js jxyf ísxzqf, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, vzj jq vzj anjsj f
ytrfw utxjxnós ijxyf kfrtxf ísxzqf jxyá tgqnlfit f wjxutsijw f zsf uwjlzsyf
vzj xj qj mnhnjwj, vzj xjf fqlt nsywnhfif d inknhzqytxf, ij hzdf wjxuzjxyf
jq uzjgqt ytrf d ythf jq uzqxt ijq nsljsnt ij xz szjat ltgjwsfitw; d fxí, t
xj fqjlwf t xj jsywnxyjhj hts xz ajsnif.

Js yfsyt vzj jq rfdtwitrt ijhíf jxyt f Xfshmt, jxyfgf éq rnwfsit zsfx
lwfsijx d rzhmfx qjywfx vzj js qf ufwji kwtsyjwf ij xz xnqqf jxyfgfs
jxhwnyfx; d, htrt éq st xfgíf qjjw, uwjlzsyó vzj vzé jwfs fvzjqqfx unsyzwfx
vzj js fvzjqqf ufwji jxyfgfs. Kzjqj wjxutsinit:

-Xjñtw, fqqí jxyf jxhwnyt d styfit jq iíf js vzj Azjxywf Xjñtwíf ytró
utxjxnós ijxyf ísxzqf, d inhj jq junyfknt: Mtd iíf, f yfsytx ij yfq rjx d
ij yfq fñt, ytró qf utxjxnós ijxyf ísxzqf jq xjñtw its Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj
rzhmtx fñtx qf lthj.

-D ¿f vznés qqfrfs its Xfshmt Ufsef? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

-F azjxywf xjñtwíf -wjxutsinó jq rfdtwitrt-, vzj js jxyf ísxzqf st mf
jsywfit tywt Ufsef xnst jq vzj jxyá xjsyfit js jxf xnqqf.

-Uzjx fiajwyni, mjwrfst -inot Xfshmt-, vzj dt st yjslt its, sn js ytit rn
qnsfoj qj mf mfgnit: Xfshmt Ufsef rj qqfrfs f xjhfx, d Xfshmt xj qqfró rn
ufiwj, d Xfshmt rn flüjqt, d ytitx kzjwts Ufsefx, xns fñfinizwfx ij itsjx
sn itsfx; d dt nrflnst vzj js jxyf ísxzqf ijgj ij mfgjw ráx itsjx vzj
unjiwfx; ujwt gfxyf: Intx rj jsynjsij, d utiwá xjw vzj, xn jq ltgnjwst rj
izwf hzfywt iífx, dt jxhfwifwé jxytx itsjx, vzj, utw qf rzhmjizrgwj, ijgjs
ij jskfifw htrt qtx rtxvznytx. Ufxj fijqfsyj hts xz uwjlzsyf jq xjñtw
rfdtwitrt, vzj dt wjxutsijwé qt rjotw vzj xzunjwj, twf xj jsywnxyjehf t st
xj jsywnxyjehf jq uzjgqt.

F jxyj nsxyfsyj jsywfwts js jq ozelfit itx mtrgwjx, jq zst ajxynit ij
qfgwfitw d jq tywt ij xfxywj, utwvzj ywfíf zsfx ynojwfx js qf rfst, d jq
xfxywj inot:

-Xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, dt d jxyj mtrgwj qfgwfitw ajsnrtx fsyj azjxywf rjwhji js
wfeós vzj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj qqjló f rn ynjsif fdjw (vzj dt, hts ujwiós ij
qtx uwjxjsyjx, xtd xfxywj jcfrnsfit, vzj Intx xjf gjsinyt), d, utsnésitrj
zs ujifet ij ufñt js qfx rfstx, rj uwjlzsyó: ''Xjñtw, ¿mfgwíf js jxyt
ufñt mfwyt ufwf mfhjwrj zsf hfujwzef?'' Dt, yfsyjfsit jq ufñt, qj wjxutsií
vzj xí; éq ijgnóxj ij nrflnsfw, f qt vzj dt nrflnst, j nrflnsé gnjs, vzj
xns izif dt qj vzjwíf mzwyfw fqlzsf ufwyj ijq ufñt, kzsiásitxj js xz
rfqnhnf d js qf rfqf tunsnós ij qtx xfxywjx, d wjuqnhórj vzj rnwfxj xn
mfgwíf ufwf itx; finanséqj jq ujsxfrnjsyt d iíojqj vzj xí; d éq, hfgfqqjwt
js xz ifñfif d uwnrjwf nsyjshnós, kzj fñfinjsit hfujwzefx, d dt fñfinjsit
xíjx, mfxyf vzj qqjlfrtx f hnsht hfujwzefx, d fmtwf js jxyj uzsyt fhfgf ij
ajsnw utw jqqfx: dt xj qfx itd, d st rj vznjwj uflfw qf mjhmzwf, fsyjx rj
unij vzj qj uflzj t azjqaf xz ufñt.

-¿Jx ytit jxyt fxí, mjwrfst? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

-Xí, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq mtrgwj-, ujwt málfqj azjxywf rjwhji vzj rzjxywj
qfx hnsht hfujwzefx vzj rj mf mjhmt.

-Ij gzjsf lfsf -wjxutsinó jq xfxywj.

D, xfhfsit jshtsynsjsyj qf rfst ijgfot ijq mjwwjwzjqt, rtxywó js jqqf hnsht
hfujwzefx uzjxyfx js qfx hnsht hfgjefx ij qtx ijitx ij qf rfst, d inot:

-Mj fvzí qfx hnsht hfujwzefx vzj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj rj unij, d js Intx d js
rn htshnjshnf vzj st rj mf vzjifit sfif ijq ufñt, d dt ifwé qf tgwf f anxyf
ij ajjitwjx ijq tknhnt.

Ytitx qtx uwjxjsyjx xj wnjwts ij qf rzqynyzi ij qfx hfujwzefx d ijq szjat
uqjnyt. Xfshmt xj uzxt f htsxnijwfw zs utht, d inot:

-Ufwéhjrj vzj js jxyj uqjnyt st mf ij mfgjw qfwlfx inqfhntsjx, xnst ozelfw
qzjlt f oznhnt ij gzjs afwós; d fxí, dt itd utw xjsyjshnf vzj jq xfxywj
unjwif qfx mjhmzwfx, d jq qfgwfitw jq ufñt, d qfx hfujwzefx xj qqjajs f qtx
uwjxtx ij qf háwhjq, d st mfdf ráx.

Xn qf xjsyjshnf ufxfif ij qf gtqxf ijq lfsfijwt rtanó f firnwfhnós f qtx
hnwhzsxyfsyjx, éxyf qjx uwtathó f wnxf; ujwt, js kns, xj mnet qt vzj rfsió
jq ltgjwsfitw; fsyj jq hzfq xj uwjxjsyfwts itx mtrgwjx fshnfstx; jq zst
ywfíf zsf hfñfmjof utw gáhzqt, d jq xns gáhzqt inot:

-Xjñtw, f jxyj gzjs mtrgwj qj uwjxyé iífx mf inje jxhzitx ij twt js twt,
utw mfhjwqj uqfhjw d gzjsf tgwf, hts htsinhnós vzj rj qtx atqanjxj hzfsit
xj qtx uninjxj; ufxáwtsxj rzhmtx iífx xns ujiíwxjqtx, utw st utsjwqj js
rfdtw sjhjxnifi ij atqaéwrjqtx vzj qf vzj éq yjsíf hzfsit dt xj qtx uwjxyé;
ujwt, utw ufwjhjwrj vzj xj ijxhznifgf js qf uflf, xj qtx mj ujinit zsf d
rzhmfx ajhjx, d st xtqfrjsyj st rj qtx azjqaj, ujwt rj qtx snjlf d inhj vzj
szshf yfqjx inje jxhzitx qj uwjxyé, d vzj xn xj qtx uwjxyé, vzj df rj qtx
mf azjqyt. Dt st yjslt yjxynltx sn ijq uwjxyfit sn ij qf azjqyf, utwvzj st
rj qtx mf azjqyt; vzjwwíf vzj azjxywf rjwhji qj ytrfxj ozwfrjsyt, d xn
ozwfwj vzj rj qtx mf azjqyt, dt xj qtx ujwitst ufwf fvzí d ufwf ijqfsyj ij
Intx.

-¿Vzé ijhíx atx f jxyt, gzjs anjot ijq gáhzqt? -inot Xfshmt.

F qt vzj inot jq anjot:

-Dt, xjñtw, htsknjxt vzj rj qtx uwjxyó, d gfoj azjxywf rjwhji jxf afwf; d,
uzjx éq qt ijof js rn ozwfrjsyt, dt ozwfwé htrt xj qtx mj azjqyt d uflfit
wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj.

Gfoó jq ltgjwsfitw qf afwf, d, js yfsyt, jq anjot ijq gáhzqt int jq gáhzqt
fq tywt anjot, vzj xj qj yzanjxj js yfsyt vzj ozwfgf, htrt xn qj jrgfwfefwf
rzhmt, d qzjlt uzxt qf rfst js qf hwze ij qf afwf, inhnjsit vzj jwf ajwifi
vzj xj qj mfgífs uwjxyfit fvzjqqtx inje jxhzitx vzj xj qj ujiífs; ujwt vzj
éq xj qtx mfgíf azjqyt ij xz rfst f qf xzdf, d vzj utw st hfjw js jqqt xj
qtx atqaíf f ujinw utw rtrjsytx. Anjsit qt hzfq jq lwfs ltgjwsfitw,
uwjlzsyó fq fhwjjitw vzé wjxutsiíf f qt vzj ijhíf xz htsywfwnt; d inot vzj
xns izif fqlzsf xz ijzitw ijgíf ij ijhnw ajwifi, utwvzj qj yjsíf utw mtrgwj
ij gnjs d gzjs hwnxynfst, d vzj f éq xj qj ijgíf ij mfgjw tqanifit jq hórt
d hzásit xj qtx mfgíf azjqyt, d vzj ijxij fqqí js fijqfsyj ofráx qj uninwíf
sfif. Ytwsó f ytrfw xz gáhzqt jq ijzitw, d, gfofsit qf hfgjef, xj xfqnó ijq
ozelfit. Anxyt qt hzfq Xfshmt, d vzj xns ráx sn ráx xj ngf, d anjsit
yfrgnés qf ufhnjshnf ijq ijrfsifsyj, nshqnsó qf hfgjef xtgwj jq ujhmt, d,
utsnésitxj jq ísinhj ij qf rfst ijwjhmf xtgwj qfx hjofx d qfx sfwnhjx,
jxyzat htrt ujsxfynat zs ujvzjñt jxufhnt, d qzjlt fqeó qf hfgjef d rfsió
vzj qj qqfrfxjs fq anjot ijq gáhzqt, vzj df xj mfgíf nit. Ywzoéwtsxjqj, d,
js anésitqj Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Ifirj, gzjs mtrgwj, jxj gáhzqt, vzj qj mj rjsjxyjw.

-Ij rzd gzjsf lfsf -wjxutsinó jq anjot-: mjqj fvzí, xjñtw.

D uúxtxjqj js qf rfst. Ytróqj Xfshmt, d, iásitxjqj fq tywt anjot, qj inot:

-Fsifi hts Intx, vzj df afnx uflfit.

-¿Dt, xjñtw? -wjxutsinó jq anjot-. Uzjx, ¿afqj jxyf hfñfmjof inje jxhzitx
ij twt?

-Xí -inot jq ltgjwsfitw-; t xn st, dt xtd jq rfdtw utwwt ijq rzsit. D fmtwf
xj ajwá xn yjslt dt hfqjywj ufwf ltgjwsfw ytit zs wjnst.

D rfsió vzj fqqí, ijqfsyj ij ytitx, xj wtrunjxj d fgwnjxj qf hfñf. Míetxj
fxí, d js jq htwfeós ijqqf mfqqfwts inje jxhzitx js twt. Vzjifwts ytitx
firnwfitx, d yzanjwts f xz ltgjwsfitw utw zs szjat Xfqtrós.

Uwjlzsyáwtsqj ij iósij mfgíf htqjlnit vzj js fvzjqqf hfñfmjof jxyfgfs
fvzjqqtx inje jxhzitx, d wjxutsinó vzj ij mfgjwqj anxyt ifw jq anjot vzj
ozwfgf, f xz htsywfwnt, fvzjq gáhzqt, js yfsyt vzj mfhíf jq ozwfrjsyt, d
ozwfw vzj xj qtx mfgíf ifit wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj, d vzj, js fhfgfsit ij
ozwfw, qj ytwsó f ujinw jq gáhzqt, qj anst f qf nrflnsfhnós vzj ijsywt iéq
jxyfgf qf uflf ij qt vzj ujiífs. Ij itsij xj utiíf htqjlnw vzj qtx vzj
ltgnjwsfs, fzsvzj xjfs zstx ytsytx, yfq aje qtx jshfrnsf Intx js xzx
oznhntx; d ráx, vzj éq mfgíf tíit htsyfw tywt hfxt htrt fvzéq fq hzwf ij xz
qzlfw, d vzj éq yjsíf yfs lwfs rjrtwnf, vzj, f st tqaniáwxjqj ytit fvzjqqt
ij vzj vzjwíf fhtwifwxj, st mzgnjwf yfq rjrtwnf js ytif qf ísxzqf.
Knsfqrjsyj, jq zs anjot htwwnit d jq tywt uflfit, xj kzjwts, d qtx
uwjxjsyjx vzjifwts firnwfitx, d jq vzj jxhwngíf qfx ufqfgwfx, mjhmtx d
rtanrnjsytx ij Xfshmt st fhfgfgf ij ijyjwrnsfwxj xn qj yjsiwíf d utsiwíf
utw ytsyt t utw inxhwjyt.

Qzjlt, fhfgfit jxyj uqjnyt, jsywó js jq ozelfit zsf rzojw fxnif kzjwyjrjsyj
ij zs mtrgwj ajxynit ij lfsfijwt wnht, qf hzfq ajsíf ifsit lwfsijx athjx,
inhnjsit:

-¡Ozxynhnf, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, ozxynhnf, d xn st qf mfqqt js qf ynjwwf, qf
nwé f gzxhfw fq hnjqt! Xjñtw ltgjwsfitw ij rn ásnrf, jxyj rfq mtrgwj rj mf
htlnit js qf rnyfi ijxj hfrut, d xj mf fuwtajhmfit ij rn hzjwut htrt xn
kzjwf ywfut rfq qfafit, d, ¡ijxinhmfif ij rí!, rj mf qqjafit qt vzj dt
yjsíf lzfwifit ráx ij ajnsyj d ywjx fñtx mf, ijkjsinésitqt ij rtwtx d
hwnxynfstx, ij sfyzwfqjx d jxywfsojwtx; d dt, xnjruwj izwf htrt zs
fqhtwstvzj, htsxjwaásitrj jsyjwf htrt qf xfqfrfsvzjxf js jq kzjlt, t htrt
qf qfsf jsywj qfx efwefx, ufwf vzj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj qqjlfxj fmtwf hts xzx
rfstx qnrunfx f rfstxjfwrj.

-Fzs jxt jxyá utw fajwnlzfw: xn ynjsj qnrunfx t st qfx rfstx jxyj lfqás
-inot Xfshmt.

D, atqanésitxj fq mtrgwj, qj inot vzé ijhíf d wjxutsiíf f qf vzjwjqqf ij
fvzjqqf rzojw. Jq hzfq, ytit yzwgfit, wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtwjx, dt xtd zs utgwj lfsfijwt ij lfsfit ij hjwif, d jxyf rfñfsf xfqíf
ijxyj qzlfw ij ajsijw, hts ujwiós xjf inhmt, hzfywt uzjwhtx, vzj rj
qqjafwts ij fqhfgfqfx d xthfqnñfx utht rjstx ij qt vzj jqqtx afqífs;
atqaífrj f rn fqijf, ytué js jq hfrnst f jxyf gzjsf izjñf, d jq infgqt, vzj
ytit qt fñfxhf d ytit qt hzjhj, mnet vzj dtláxjrtx ozsytx; uflzéqj qt
xtknhnjsyj, d jqqf, rfq htsyjsyf, fxnó ij rí, d st rj mf ijofit mfxyf
ywfjwrj f jxyj uzjxyt. Inhj vzj qf ktwhé, d rnjsyj, ufwf jq ozwfrjsyt vzj
mflt t unjsxt mfhjw; d éxyf jx ytif qf ajwifi, xns kfqyfw rjfof.

Jsytshjx jq ltgjwsfitw qj uwjlzsyó xn ywfíf htsxnlt fqlús insjwt js uqfyf;
éq inot vzj mfxyf ajnsyj izhfitx yjsíf js jq xjst, js zsf gtqxf ij hzjwt.
Rfsió vzj qf xfhfxj d xj qf jsywjlfxj, fxí htrt jxyfgf, f qf vzjwjqqfsyj;
éq qt mnet yjrgqfsit; ytróqf qf rzojw, d, mfhnjsit rnq efqjrfx f ytitx d
wtlfsit f Intx utw qf anif d xfqzi ijq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, vzj fxí rnwfgf utw
qfx mzéwkfsfx rjsjxyjwtxfx d itshjqqfx; d hts jxyt xj xfqnó ijq ozelfit,
qqjafsit qf gtqxf fxnif hts jsywfrgfx rfstx, fzsvzj uwnrjwt rnwó xn jwf ij
uqfyf qf rtsjif vzj qqjafgf ijsywt.

Fujsfx xfqnó, hzfsit Xfshmt inot fq lfsfijwt, vzj df xj qj xfqyfgfs qfx
qálwnrfx, d qtx totx d jq htwfeós xj ngfs ywfx xz gtqxf:

-Gzjs mtrgwj, ni ywfx fvzjqqf rzojw d vznyfiqj qf gtqxf, fzsvzj st vznjwf,
d atqaji fvzí hts jqqf.

D st qt inot f ytsyt sn f xtwit, utwvzj qzjlt ufwynó htrt zs wfdt d kzj f
qt vzj xj qj rfsifgf. Ytitx qtx uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs xzxujsxtx, jxujwfsit jq
kns ij fvzjq uqjnyt, d ij fqqí f utht atqanjwts jq mtrgwj d qf rzojw ráx
fxnitx d fkjwwfitx vzj qf aje uwnrjwf: jqqf qf xfdf qjafsyfif d js jq
wjlfet uzjxyf qf gtqxf, d jq mtrgwj uzlsfsit utw vznyáwxjqf; rfx st jwf
utxngqj, xjlús qf rzojw qf ijkjsiíf, qf hzfq ifgf athjx inhnjsit:

-¡Ozxynhnf ij Intx d ijq rzsit! Rnwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, qf
uthf ajwlüjsef d jq utht yjrtw ijxyj ijxfqrfit, vzj, js rnyfi ij utgqfit d
js rnyfi ij qf hfqqj, rj mf vzjwnit vznyfw qf gtqxf vzj azjxywf rjwhji
rfsió ifwrj.

-D ¿mátxqf vznyfit? -uwjlzsyó jq ltgjwsfitw.

-¿Hórt vznyfw? -wjxutsinó qf rzojw-. Fsyjx rj ijofwf dt vznyfw qf anif vzj
rj vznyjs qf gtqxf. ¡Gtsnyf jx qf snñf! ¡Tywtx lfytx rj mfs ij jhmfw f qfx
gfwgfx, vzj st jxyj ijxajsyzwfit d fxvzjwtxt! ¡Yjsfefx d rfwynqqtx, rfetx d
jxhtuqtx st xjwás gfxyfsyjx f xfháwrjqf ij qfx zñfx, sn fzs lfwwfx ij
qjtsjx: fsyjx jq ásnrf ij js rnyfi js rnyfi ij qfx hfwsjx!

-Jqqf ynjsj wfeós -inot jq mtrgwj-, d dt rj itd utw wjsinit d xns kzjwefx,
d htsknjxt vzj qfx rífx st xts gfxyfsyjx ufwf vznyáwxjqf, d iéotqf.

Jsytshjx jq ltgjwsfitw inot f qf rzojw:

-Rtxywfi, mtswfif d afqnjsyj, jxf gtqxf.

Jqqf xj qf int qzjlt, d jq ltgjwsfitw xj qf atqanó fq mtrgwj, d inot f qf
jxktwefif d st ktwefif:

-Mjwrfsf ríf, xn jq rnxrt fqnjsyt d afqtw vzj mfgénx rtxywfit ufwf ijkjsijw
jxyf gtqxf qj rtxywáwfijx, d fzs qf rnyfi rjstx, ufwf ijkjsijw azjxywt
hzjwut, qfx kzjwefx ij Méwhzqjx st tx mnhnjwfs kzjwef. Fsifi hts Intx, d
rzhmt ij jsmtwfrfqf, d st ufwénx js ytif jxyf ísxzqf sn js xjnx qjlzfx f qf
wjitsif, xt ujsf ij ithnjsytx fetyjx. ¡Fsifi qzjlt inlt, hmzwwnqqjwf,
ijxajwltsefif d jrgfnitwf!

Jxufsyóxj qf rzojw d kzjxj hfgnegfof d rfq htsyjsyf, d jq ltgjwsfitw inot
fq mtrgwj:

-Gzjs mtrgwj, fsifi hts Intx f azjxywt qzlfw hts azjxywt insjwt, d ij fvzí
fijqfsyj, xn st qj vzjwénx ujwijw, uwthzwfi vzj st tx ajslf js atqzsyfi ij
dtlfw hts sfinj.

Jq mtrgwj qj int qfx lwfhnfx qt ujtw vzj xzut, d kzjxj, d qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx
vzjifwts firnwfitx ij szjat ij qtx oznhntx d xjsyjshnfx ij xz szjat
ltgjwsfitw. Ytit qt hzfq, styfit ij xz htwtsnxyf, kzj qzjlt jxhwnyt fq
izvzj, vzj hts lwfs ijxjt qt jxyfgf jxujwfsit.

D vzéijxj fvzí jq gzjs Xfshmt, vzj jx rzhmf qf uwnjxf vzj stx if xz frt,
fqgtwtefit hts qf rúxnhf ij Fqynxnitwf.





Hfuíyzqt CQAN. Ijq yjrjwtxt jxufsyt hjshjwwnq d lfyzst vzj wjhngnó its
Vznotyj js jq inxhzwxt ij qtx frtwjx ij qf jsfrtwfif Fqynxnitwf


Ijofrtx fq lwfs its Vznotyj jsazjqyt js qtx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj qj mfgífs
hfzxfit qf rúxnhf ij qf jsfrtwfif itshjqqf Fqynxnitwf. Fhtxyóxj hts jqqtx,
d, htrt xn kzjwfs uzqlfx, st qj ijofwts itwrnw sn xtxjlfw zs uzsyt, d
ozsyágfsxjqj qtx vzj qj kfqyfgfs ij xzx rjinfx; ujwt, htrt jx qnljwt jq
ynjrut, d st mfd gfwwfsht vzj qj ijyjslf, htwwnó hfgfqqjwt js qfx mtwfx, d
hts rzhmf uwjxyjef qqjló qf ij qf rfñfsf. Qt hzfq anxyt utw its Vznotyj,
ijoó qfx gqfsifx uqzrfx, d, st sfif ujwjetxt, xj anxynó xz fhfrzefit
ajxynit d xj hfqeó xzx gtyfx ij hfrnst, utw jshzgwnw qf ijxlwfhnf ij xzx
rjinfx; fwwtoóxj jshnrf xz rfsyós ij jxhfwqfyf d uúxtxj js qf hfgjef zsf
rtsyjwf ij yjwhntujqt ajwij, lzfwsjhnif ij ufxfrfstx ij uqfyf; htqló jq
yfmjqí ij xzx mtrgwtx hts xz gzjsf d yfofitwf jxufif, fxnó zs lwfs wtxfwnt
vzj htsxnlt htsynst ywfíf, d hts lwfs uwtxtutujdf d htsytsjt xfqnó f qf
fsyjxfqf, itsij jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf jxyfgfs df ajxynitx d htrt
jxujwásitqj; d, fq ufxfw utw zsf lfqjwíf, jxyfgfs futxyf jxujwásitqj
Fqynxnitwf d qf tywf itshjqqf xz frnlf, d, fxí htrt Fqynxnitwf ant f its
Vznotyj, knslnó ijxrfdfwxj, d xz frnlf qf wjhtlnó js xzx kfqifx, d hts lwfs
uwjxyjef qf ngf f ijxfgwthmfw jq ujhmt. Its Vznotyj, vzj qt ant, qqjlásitxj
f jqqfx, inot:

-Df xé dt ij vzé uwthjijs jxytx fhhnijsyjx.

-St xé dt ij vzé -wjxutsinó qf frnlf-, utwvzj Fqynxnitwf jx qf itshjqqf ráx
xfsf ij ytif jxyf hfxf, d dt szshf qf mj xjsynit zs ¡fd! js hzfsyt mf vzj
qf htsteht, vzj rfq mfdfs hzfsytx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx mfd js jq rzsit, xn
jx vzj ytitx xts ijxflwfijhnitx. Aádfxj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj,
vzj st atqajwá js xí jxyf utgwj snñf js yfsyt vzj azjxf rjwhji fvzí
jxyzanjwj.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Mflf azjxf rjwhji, xjñtwf, vzj xj rj utslf zs qfúi jxyf sthmj js rn
futxjsyt, vzj dt htsxtqfwé qt rjotw vzj uzinjwj f jxyf qfxynrfif itshjqqf;
vzj js qtx uwnshnuntx frtwtxtx qtx ijxjslfñtx uwjxytx xzjqjs xjw wjrjintx
hfqnknhfitx.

D hts jxyt xj kzj, utwvzj st kzjxj styfit ij qtx vzj fqqí qj anjxjs. St xj
mzgt gnjs fufwyfit, hzfsit, atqanjsit js xí qf ijxrfdfif Fqynxnitwf, inot f
xz htrufñjwf:

-Rjsjxyjw xjwá vzj xj qj utslf jq qfúi, vzj xns izif its Vznotyj vznjwj
ifwstx rúxnhf, d st xjwá rfqf, xnjsit xzdf.

Kzjwts qzjlt f ifw hzjsyf f qf izvzjxf ij qt vzj ufxfgf d ijq qfúi vzj
ujiíf its Vznotyj, d jqqf, fqjlwj xtgwjrtit, htshjwyó hts jq izvzj d hts
xzx itshjqqfx ij mfhjwqj zsf gzwqf vzj kzjxj ráx wnxzjñf vzj ifñtxf, d hts
rzhmt htsyjsyt jxujwfgfs qf sthmj, vzj xj anst yfs fuwnjxf htrt xj mfgíf
ajsnit jq iíf, jq hzfq ufxfwts qtx izvzjx js xfgwtxfx uqáynhfx hts its
Vznotyj. D qf izvzjxf fvzjq iíf wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj ijxufhmó f zs ufoj
xzdt, vzj mfgíf mjhmt js qf xjqaf qf knlzwf jshfsyfif ij Izqhnsjf, f Yjwjxf
Ufsef, hts qf hfwyf ij xz rfwnit Xfshmt Ufsef, d hts jq qít ij wtuf vzj
mfgíf ijofit ufwf vzj xj qj jsanfxj, jshfwlásitqj qj ywzojxj gzjsf
wjqfhnós ij ytit qt vzj hts jqqf ufxfxj.

Mjhmt jxyt, d qqjlfifx qfx tshj mtwfx ij qf sthmj, mfqqó its Vznotyj zsf
anmzjqf js xz futxjsyt; yjruqóqf, fgwnó qf wjof, d xnsynó vzj fsifgf ljsyj
js jq ofwiís; d, mfgnjsit wjhtwwnit qtx ywfxyjx ij qf anmzjqf d fknsásitqf
qt rjotw vzj xzut, jxhzunó d wjrtsióxj jq ujhmt, d qzjlt, hts zsf ate
wtsvznqqf, fzsvzj jsytsfif, hfsyó jq xnlznjsyj wtrfshj, vzj éq rnxrt fvzjq
iíf mfgíf htruzjxyt:

   -Xzjqjs qfx kzjwefx ij frtw
   xfhfw ij vznhnt f qfx fqrfx,
   ytrfsit utw nsxywzrjsyt
   qf thntxnifi ijxhznifif.
   Xzjqj jq htxjw d jq qfgwfw,
   d jq jxyfw xnjruwj thzufif,
   xjw fsyíityt fq ajsjst
   ij qfx frtwtxfx fsxnfx.
   Qfx itshjqqfx wjhtlnifx
   vzj fxunwfs f xjw hfxfifx,
   qf mtsjxynifi jx qf ityj
   d ate ij xzx fqfgfsefx.
   Qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx,
   d qtx vzj js qf htwyj fsifs,
   wjvznégwfsxj hts qfx qngwjx,
   hts qfx mtsjxyfx xj hfxfs.
   Mfd frtwjx ij qjafsyj,
   vzj jsywj mzéxujijx xj ywfyfs,
   vzj qqjlfs uwjxyt fq utsnjsyj,
   utwvzj js jq ufwynwxj fhfgfs.
   Jq frtw wjhnés ajsnit,
   vzj mtd qqjló d xj af rfñfsf,
   qfx nrálnsjx st ijof
   gnjs nruwjxfx js jq fqrf.
   Unsyzwf xtgwj unsyzwf
   sn xj rzjxywf sn xjñfqf;
   d it mfd uwnrjwf gjqqjef,
   qf xjlzsif st mfhj gfef.
   Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt
   ijq fqrf js qf yfgqf wfxf
   yjslt unsyfif ij rtit
   vzj jx nrutxngqj gtwwfwqf.
   Qf knwrjef js qtx frfsyjx
   jx qf ufwyj ráx uwjhnfif,
   utw vznjs mfhj frtw rnqflwtx,
   d fxnrjxrt qtx qjafsyf.

Fvzí qqjlfgf its Vznotyj ij xz hfsyt, f vznjs jxyfgfs jxhzhmfsit jq izvzj d
qf izvzjxf, Fqynxnitwf d hfxn ytif qf ljsyj ijq hfxynqqt, hzfsit ij
nruwtanxt, ijxij jshnrf ij zs htwwjitw vzj xtgwj qf wjof ij its Vznotyj f
uqtrt hfíf, ijxhtqlfwts zs htwijq itsij ajsífs ráx ij hnjs hjshjwwtx
fxnitx, d qzjlt, ywfx jqqtx, ijwwfrfwts zs lwfs xfht ij lfytx, vzj fxnrnxrt
ywfífs hjshjwwtx rjstwjx fyfitx f qfx htqfx. Kzj yfs lwfsij jq wznit ij qtx
hjshjwwtx d jq rfdfw ij qtx lfytx, vzj, fzsvzj qtx izvzjx mfgífs xnit
nsajsytwjx ij qf gzwqf, ytifaíf qjx xtgwjxfqyó; d, yjrjwtxt, its Vznotyj
vzjió ufxrfit. D vznxt qf xzjwyj vzj itx t ywjx lfytx xj jsywfwts utw qf
wjof ij xz jxyfshnf, d, ifsit ij zsf ufwyj f tywf, ufwjhíf vzj zsf wjlnós
ij infgqtx fsifgf js jqqf. Fuflfwts qfx ajqfx vzj js jq futxjsyt fwiífs, d
fsifgfs gzxhfsit utw it jxhfufwxj. Jq ijxhtqlfw d xzgnw ijq htwijq ij qtx
lwfsijx hjshjwwtx st hjxfgf; qf rfdtw ufwyj ij qf ljsyj ijq hfxynqqt, vzj
st xfgíf qf ajwifi ijq hfxt, jxyfgf xzxujsxf d firnwfif.

Qjafsyóxj its Vznotyj js unj, d, utsnjsit rfst f qf jxufif, htrjseó f ynwfw
jxythfifx utw qf wjof d f ijhnw f lwfsijx athjx:

-¡Fkzjwf, rfqnlstx jshfsyfitwjx! ¡Fkzjwf, hfsfqqf mjhmnhjwjxhf, vzj dt xtd
its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, htsywf vznjs st afqjs sn ynjsjs kzjwef azjxywfx
rfqfx nsyjshntsjx!

D, atqanésitxj f qtx lfytx vzj fsifgfs utw jq futxjsyt, qjx ynwó rzhmfx
hzhmnqqfifx; jqqtx fhzinjwts f qf wjof, d utw fqqí xj xfqnjwts, fzsvzj zst,
anésitxj yfs fhtxfit ij qfx hzhmnqqfifx ij its Vznotyj, qj xfqyó fq wtxywt
d qj fxnó ij qfx sfwnhjx hts qfx zñfx d qtx injsyjx, utw hzdt itqtw its
Vznotyj htrjseó f ifw qtx rfdtwjx lwnytx vzj uzit. Tdjsit qt hzfq jq izvzj
d qf izvzjxf, d htsxnijwfsit qt vzj utiíf xjw, hts rzhmf uwjxyjef fhzinjwts
f xz jxyfshnf, d, fgwnjsit hts qqfaj rfjxywf, anjwts fq utgwj hfgfqqjwt
uzlsfsit hts ytifx xzx kzjwefx utw fwwfshfw jq lfyt ij xz wtxywt. Jsywfwts
hts qzhjx d anjwts qf ijxnlzfq ujqjf; fhzinó jq izvzj f ijxufwynwqf, d its
Vznotyj inot f athjx:

-¡St rj qj vznyj sfinj! ¡Iéojsrj rfst f rfst hts jxyj ijrtsnt, hts jxyj
mjhmnhjwt, hts jxyj jshfsyfitw, vzj dt qj ifwé f jsyjsijw ij rí f éq vznés
jx its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf!

Ujwt jq lfyt, st hzwásitxj ijxyfx frjsfefx, lwzñíf d fuwjyfgf. Rfx, js kns,
jq izvzj xj qj ijxfwwfnló d qj jhmó utw qf wjof.

Vzjió its Vznotyj fhwngfit jq wtxywt d st rzd xfsfx qfx sfwnhjx, fzsvzj rzd
ijxujhmfit utwvzj st qj mfgífs ijofit kjsjhjw qf gfyfqqf vzj yfs ywfgfif
yjsíf hts fvzjq rfqfsiwís jshfsyfitw. Mnhnjwts ywfjw fhjnyj ij Fufwnhnt, d
qf rnxrf Fqynxnitwf, hts xzx gqfsvzíxnrfx rfstx, qj uzxt zsfx ajsifx utw
ytit qt mjwnit; d, fq utséwxjqfx, hts ate gfof qj inot:

-Ytifx jxyfx rfqfsifsefx yj xzhjijs, jrujijwsnit hfgfqqjwt, utw jq ujhfit
ij yz izwjef d ujwynsfhnf; d uqjlf f Intx vzj xj qj tqanij f Xfshmt yz
jxhzijwt jq fetyfwxj, utwvzj szshf xfqlf ij xz jshfsyt jxyf yfs frfif yzdf
Izqhnsjf, sn yú qt lthjx, sn qqjlzjx f yáqfrt hts jqqf, f qt rjstx ananjsit
dt, vzj yj fitwt.

F ytit jxyt st wjxutsinó its Vznotyj tywf ufqfgwf xn st kzj ifw zs uwtkzsit
xzxunwt, d qzjlt xj yjsinó js xz qjhmt, flwfijhnjsit f qtx izvzjx qf
rjwhji, st utwvzj éq yjsíf yjrtw ij fvzjqqf hfsfqqf lfyjxhf, jshfsyfitwf d
hjshjwwzsf, xnst utwvzj mfgíf htsthnit qf gzjsf nsyjshnós hts vzj mfgífs
ajsnit f xthtwwjwqj. Qtx izvzjx qj ijofwts xtxjlfw, d xj kzjwts, ujxfwtxtx
ijq rfq xzhjxt ij qf gzwqf; vzj st hwjdjwts vzj yfs ujxfif d htxytxf qj
xfqnjwf f its Vznotyj fvzjqqf fajsyzwf, vzj qj htxyó hnsht iífx ij
jshjwwfrnjsyt d ij hfrf, itsij qj xzhjinó tywf fajsyzwf ráx lzxytxf vzj qf
ufxfif, qf hzfq st vznjwj xz mnxytwnfitw htsyfw fmtwf, utw fhzinw f Xfshmt
Ufsef, vzj fsifgf rzd xtqíhnyt d rzd lwfhntxt js xz ltgnjwst.





Hfuíyzqt CQANN. Itsij xj uwtxnlzj hórt xj utwyfgf Xfshmt Ufsef js xz
ltgnjwst


Hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf vzj ijxij jq ozelfit qqjafwts f Xfshmt Ufsef f zs
xzsyztxt ufqfhnt, fitsij js zsf lwfs xfqf jxyfgf uzjxyf zsf wjfq d
qnruíxnrf rjxf; d, fxí htrt Xfshmt jsywó js qf xfqf, xtsfwts hmnwnrífx, d
xfqnjwts hzfywt ufojx f ifwqj flzfrfstx, vzj Xfshmt wjhngnó hts rzhmf
lwfajifi.

Hjxó qf rúxnhf, xjsyóxj Xfshmt f qf hfgjhjwf ij qf rjxf, utwvzj st mfgíf
ráx ij fvzjq fxnjsyt, d st tywt xjwanhnt js ytif jqqf. Uúxtxj f xz qfit js
unj zs ujwxtsfoj, vzj ijxuzéx rtxywó xjw réinht, hts zsf afwnqqf ij gfqqjsf
js qf rfst. Qjafsyfwts zsf wnvzíxnrf d gqfshf ytfqqf hts vzj jxyfgfs
hzgnjwyfx qfx kwzyfx d rzhmf inajwxnifi ij uqfytx ij inajwxtx rfsofwjx; zst
vzj ufwjhíf jxyzinfsyj jhmó qf gjsinhnós, d zs ufoj uzxt zs gfgfitw wfsifit
f Xfshmt; tywt vzj mfhíf jq tknhnt ij rfjxywjxfqf, qqjló zs uqfyt ij kwzyf
ijqfsyj; ujwt, fujsfx mzgt htrnit zs gthfit, hzfsit jq ij qf afwnqqf
ythfsit hts jqqf js jq uqfyt, xj qj vznyfwts ij ijqfsyj hts lwfsiíxnrf
hjqjwnifi; ujwt jq rfjxywjxfqf qj qqjló tywt ij tywt rfsofw. Ngf f uwtgfwqj
Xfshmt; ujwt, fsyjx vzj qqjlfxj f éq sn qj lzxyfxj, df qf afwnqqf mfgíf
ythfit js éq, d zs ufoj fqeáitqj hts yfsyf uwjxyjef htrt jq ij qf kwzyf.
Anxyt qt hzfq utw Xfshmt, vzjió xzxujsxt, d, rnwfsit f ytitx, uwjlzsyó xn
xj mfgíf ij htrjw fvzjqqf htrnif htrt ozjlt ij rfjxjhtwfq. F qt hzfq
wjxutsinó jq ij qf afwf:

-St xj mf ij htrjw, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, xnst htrt jx zxt d htxyzrgwj js qfx
tywfx ísxzqfx itsij mfd ltgjwsfitwjx. Dt, xjñtw, xtd réinht, d jxytd
fxfqfwnfit js jxyf ísxzqf ufwf xjwqt ij qtx ltgjwsfitwjx ijqqf, d rnwt utw
xz xfqzi rzhmt ráx vzj utw qf ríf, jxyzinfsit ij sthmj d ij iíf, d
yfsyjfsit qf htruqjcnós ijq ltgjwsfitw, ufwf fhjwyfw f hzwfwqj hzfsit
hfdjwj jskjwrt; d qt uwnshnufq vzj mflt jx fxnxynw f xzx htrnifx d hjsfx, d
f ijofwqj htrjw ij qt vzj rj ufwjhj vzj qj htsanjsj, d f vznyfwqj qt vzj
nrflnst vzj qj mf ij mfhjw ifñt d xjw sthnat fq jxyórflt; d fxí, rfsié
vznyfw jq uqfyt ij qf kwzyf, utw xjw ijrfxnfifrjsyj múrjif, d jq uqfyt ijq
tywt rfsofw yfrgnés qj rfsié vznyfw, utw xjw ijrfxnfifrjsyj hfqnjsyj d
yjsjw rzhmfx jxujhnjx, vzj fhwjhnjsyfs qf xji; d jq vzj rzhmt gjgj rfyf d
htsxzrj jq múrjit wfinhfq, itsij htsxnxyj qf anif.

-Ijxf rfsjwf, fvzjq uqfyt ij ujwinhjx vzj jxyás fqqí fxfifx, d, f rn
ufwjhjw, gnjs xfetsfifx, st rj mfwás fqlús ifñt.

F qt vzj jq réinht wjxutsinó:

-Éxfx st htrjwá jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw js yfsyt vzj dt yzanjwj anif.

-Uzjx, ¿utw vzé? -inot Xfshmt.

D jq réinht wjxutsinó:

-Utwvzj szjxywt rfjxywt Mnuóhwfyjx, stwyj d qze ij qf rjinhnsf, js zs
fktwnxrt xzdt, inhj: Trsnx xfyzwfynt rfqf, ujwinhjx fzyjr ujxxnrf. Vznjwj
ijhnw: "Ytif mfwyfelf jx rfqf; ujwt qf ij qfx ujwinhjx, rfqíxnrf".

-Xn jxt jx fxí -inot Xfshmt-, ajf jq xjñtw ithytw ij hzfsytx rfsofwjx mfd
js jxyf rjxf hzáq rj mfwá ráx uwtajhmt d hzáq rjstx ifñt, d iéojrj htrjw
iéq xns vzj rj qj fufqjj; utwvzj, utw anif ijq ltgjwsfitw, d fxí Intx rj qj
ijoj ltefw, vzj rj rzjwt ij mfrgwj, d jq sjlfwrj qf htrnif, fzsvzj qj ujxj
fq xjñtw ithytw d éq ráx rj inlf, fsyjx xjwá vznyfwrj qf anif vzj
fzrjsyáwrjqf.

-Azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj wfeós, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -wjxutsinó jq réinht-; d fxí,
jx rn ufwjhjw vzj azjxywf rjwhji st htrf ij fvzjqqtx htsjotx lznxfitx vzj
fqqí jxyás, utwvzj jx rfsofw ujqnflzit. Ij fvzjqqf yjwsjwf, xn st kzjwf
fxfif d js fitgt, fús xj uzinjwf uwtgfw, ujwt st mfd ufwf vzé.

D Xfshmt inot:

-Fvzjq uqfytsfet vzj jxyá ráx fijqfsyj afmfsit rj ufwjhj vzj jx tqqf
utiwnif, vzj utw qf inajwxnifi ij htxfx vzj js qfx yfqjx tqqfx utiwnifx
mfd, st utiwé ijofw ij ytufw hts fqlzsf vzj rj xjf ij lzxyt d ij uwtajhmt.

-Fgxny! -inot jq réinht-. Afdf qjotx ij stxtywtx yfs rfq ujsxfrnjsyt: st
mfd htxf js jq rzsit ij ujtw rfsyjsnrnjsyt vzj zsf tqqf utiwnif. Fqqá qfx
tqqfx utiwnifx ufwf qtx hfsósnltx, t ufwf qtx wjytwjx ij htqjlntx, t ufwf
qfx gtifx qfgwfitwjxhfx, d iéojsstx qngwjx qfx rjxfx ij qtx ltgjwsfitwjx,
itsij mf ij fxnxynw ytit uwnrtw d ytif fynqifizwf; d qf wfeós jx utwvzj
xnjruwj d f itvznjwf d ij vznjsvznjwf xts ráx jxynrfifx qfx rjinhnsfx
xnruqjx vzj qfx htruzjxyfx, utwvzj js qfx xnruqjx st xj uzjij jwwfw d js
qfx htruzjxyfx xí, fqyjwfsit qf hfsynifi ij qfx htxfx ij vzj xts
htruzjxyfx; rfx qt vzj dt xé vzj mf ij htrjw jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw fmtwf,
ufwf htsxjwafw xz xfqzi d htwwtgtwfwqf, jx zs hnjsyt ij hfñzynqqtx ij
xzuqnhfhntsjx d zsfx yfofinhfx xzgynqjx ij hfwsj ij rjrgwnqqt, vzj qj
fxnjsyjs jq jxyórflt d qj fdzijs f qf inljxynós.

Tdjsit jxyt Xfshmt, xj fwwnró xtgwj jq jxufqifw ij qf xnqqf d rnwó ij mnyt
js mnyt fq yfq réinht, d hts ate lwfaj qj uwjlzsyó hórt xj qqfrfgf d iósij
mfgíf jxyzinfit. F qt vzj éq wjxutsinó:

-Dt, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, rj qqfrt jq ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt ij Flüjwt, d xtd
sfyzwfq ij zs qzlfw qqfrfit Ynwyjfkzjwf, vzj jxyá jsywj Hfwfhzjq d
Fqrtióafw ijq Hfrut, f qf rfst ijwjhmf, d yjslt jq lwfit ij ithytw utw qf
zsnajwxnifi ij Txzsf.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt, ytit jshjsinit js hóqjwf:

-Uzjx, xjñtw ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt ij Rfq Flüjwt, sfyzwfq ij Ynwyjfkzjwf,
qzlfw vzj jxyá f qf ijwjhmf rfst htrt afrtx ij Hfwfhzjq f Fqrtióafw ijq
Hfrut, lwfizfit js Txzsf, vzíyjxjrj qzjlt ijqfsyj, xn st, atyt fq xtq vzj
ytrj zs lfwwtyj d vzj f lfwwtyfetx, htrjsefsit utw éq, st rj mf ij vzjifw
réinht js ytif qf ísxzqf, f qt rjstx ij fvzjqqtx vzj dt jsynjsif vzj xts
nlstwfsyjx; vzj f qtx réinhtx xfgntx, uwzijsyjx d inxhwjytx qtx utsiwé
xtgwj rn hfgjef d qtx mtswfwé htrt f ujwxtsfx inansfx. D azjqat f ijhnw vzj
xj rj afdf, Ujiwt Wjhnt, ij fvzí; xn st, ytrfwé jxyf xnqqf itsij jxytd
xjsyfit d xj qf jxywjqqfwé js qf hfgjef; d uíifsrjqt js wjxnijshnf, vzj dt
rj ijxhfwlfwé hts ijhnw vzj mnhj xjwanhnt f Intx js rfyfw f zs rfq réinht,
ajwizlt ij qf wjuúgqnhf. D ijsrj ij htrjw, t xn st, yórjsxj xz ltgnjwst,
vzj tknhnt vzj st if ij htrjw f xz izjñt st afqj itx mfgfx.

Fqgtwtyóxj jq ithytw, anjsit yfs htqéwnht fq ltgjwsfitw, d vznxt mfhjw
ynwyjfkzjwf ij qf xfqf, xnst vzj js fvzjq nsxyfsyj xtsó zsf htwsjyf ij
utxyf js qf hfqqj, d, fxtrásitxj jq rfjxywjxfqf f qf ajsyfsf, atqanó
inhnjsit:

-Htwwjt anjsj ijq izvzj rn xjñtw; fqlús ijxufhmt ijgj ij ywfjw ij
nrutwyfshnf.

Jsywó jq htwwjt xzifsit d fxzxyfit, d, xfhfsit zs uqnjlt ijq xjst, qj uzxt
js qfx rfstx ijq ltgjwsfitw, d Xfshmt qj uzxt js qfx ijq rfdtwitrt, f vznjs
rfsió qjdjxj jq xtgwjjxhwnyt, vzj ijhíf fxí: F its Xfshmt Ufsef, ltgjwsfitw
ij qf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf, js xz uwtunf rfst t js qfx ij xz xjhwjyfwnt. Tdjsit
qt hzfq, Xfshmt inot:

-¿Vznés jx fvzí rn xjhwjyfwnt?

D zst ij qtx vzj uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs wjxutsinó:

-Dt, xjñtw, utwvzj xé qjjw d jxhwngnw, d xtd anehfíst.

-Hts jxf fñfinizwf -inot Xfshmt-, gnjs utiénx xjw xjhwjyfwnt ijq rnxrt
jrujwfitw. Fgwni jxj uqnjlt, d rnwfi qt vzj inhj.

Míetqt fxí jq wjhnés sfhnit xjhwjyfwnt, d, mfgnjsit qjíit qt vzj ijhíf,
inot vzj jwf sjlthnt ufwf ywfyfwqj f xtqfx. Rfsió Xfshmt ijxujofw qf xfqf,
d vzj st vzjifxjs js jqqf xnst jq rfdtwitrt d jq rfjxywjxfqf, d qtx ijráx d
jq réinht xj kzjwts; d qzjlt jq xjhwjyfwnt qjdó qf hfwyf, vzj fxí ijhíf:

F rn stynhnf mf qqjlfit, xjñtw its Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj zstx jsjrnltx rítx d
ijxf ísxzqf qf mfs ij ifw zs fxfqyt kzwntxt, st xé vzé sthmj; htsanjsj
ajqfw d jxyfw fqjwyf, utwvzj st qj ytrjs ijxfujwhjgnit. Xé yfrgnés, utw
jxuífx ajwifijwfx, vzj mfs jsywfit js jxj qzlfw hzfywt ujwxtsfx inxkwfefifx
ufwf vznyfwtx qf anif, utwvzj xj yjrjs ij azjxywt nsljsnt; fgwni jq tot, d
rnwfi vznés qqjlf f mfgqfwtx, d st htránx ij htxf vzj tx uwjxjsyfwjs. Dt
yjsiwé hznifit ij xthtwwjwtx xn tx anéwjijx js ywfgfot, d js ytit mfwénx
htrt xj jxujwf ij azjxywt jsyjsinrnjsyt. Ijxyj qzlfw, f 16 ij fltxyt, f qfx
hzfywt ij qf rfñfsf.

Azjxywt frnlt,

Jq Izvzj.

Vzjió fyósnyt Xfshmt, d rtxywfwts vzjifwqt fxnrnxrt qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx; d,
atqanésitxj fq rfdtwitrt, qj inot:

-Qt vzj fltwf xj mf ij mfhjw, d mf ij xjw qzjlt, jx rjyjw js zs hfqfgtet fq
ithytw Wjhnt; utwvzj xn fqlzst rj mf ij rfyfw, mf ij xjw éq, d ij rzjwyj
firnsíhzqf d uéxnrf, htrt jx qf ij qf mfrgwj.

-Yfrgnés -inot jq rfjxywjxfqf- rj ufwjhj f rí vzj azjxf rjwhji st htrf ij
ytit qt vzj jxyá js jxyf rjxf, utwvzj qt mfs uwjxjsyfit zsfx rtsofx, d,
htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, ijywáx ij qf hwze jxyá jq infgqt.

-St qt snjlt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d utw fmtwf ijsrj zs ujifet ij ufs d tgwf
ij hzfywt qngwfx ij zafx, vzj js jqqfx st utiwá ajsnw ajsjst; utwvzj, js
jkjhyt, st uzjit ufxfw xns htrjw, d xn jx vzj mjrtx ij jxyfw uwtsytx ufwf
jxyfx gfyfqqfx vzj stx frjsfefs, rjsjxyjw xjwá jxyfw gnjs rfsyjsnitx,
utwvzj ywnufx qqjafs htwfeós, vzj st htwfeós ywnufx. D atx, xjhwjyfwnt,
wjxutsiji fq izvzj rn xjñtw d ijhniqj vzj xj hzruqnwá qt vzj rfsif htrt qt
rfsif, xns kfqyfw uzsyt; d ifwénx ij rn ufwyj zs gjxfrfstx f rn xjñtwf qf
izvzjxf, d vzj qj xzuqnht st xj qj tqanij ij jsanfw hts zs uwtunt rn hfwyf
d rn qít f rn rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef, vzj js jqqt wjhngnwé rzhmf rjwhji, d
yjsiwé hznifit ij xjwanwqf hts ytit qt vzj rnx kzjwefx fqhfsefwjs; d ij
hfrnst utiénx jshfofw zs gjxfrfstx f rn xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
utwvzj ajf vzj xtd ufs flwfijhnit; d atx, htrt gzjs xjhwjyfwnt d htrt gzjs
anehfíst, utiénx fñfinw ytit qt vzj vznxnéwjijx d ráx ansnjwj f hzjsyt. D
áqhjsxj jxytx rfsyjqjx, d ijsrj f rí ij htrjw, vzj dt rj fajsiwé hts
hzfsyfx jxuífx d rfyfitwjx d jshfsyfitwjx ansnjwjs xtgwj rí d xtgwj rn
ísxzqf.

Js jxyt jsywó zs ufoj, d inot:

-Fvzí jxyá zs qfgwfitw sjlthnfsyj vzj vznjwj mfgqfw f Azjxywf Xjñtwíf js zs
sjlthnt, xjlús éq inhj, ij rzhmf nrutwyfshnf.

-Jxywfñt hfxt jx éxyj -inot Xfshmt- ijxytx sjlthnfsyjx. ¿Jx utxngqj vzj
xjfs yfs sjhntx, vzj st jhmjs ij ajw vzj xjrjofsyjx mtwfx htrt éxyfx st xts
js qfx vzj mfs ij ajsnw f sjlthnfw? ¿Utw ajsyzwf qtx vzj ltgjwsfrtx, qtx
vzj xtrtx ozjhjx, st xtrtx mtrgwjx ij hfwsj d ij mzjxt, d vzj jx rjsjxyjw
vzj stx ijojs ijxhfsxfw jq ynjrut vzj qf sjhjxnifi unij, xnst vzj vznjwjs
vzj xjfrtx mjhmtx ij unjiwf rfwrtq? Utw Intx d js rn htshnjshnf vzj xn rj
izwf jq ltgnjwst (vzj st izwfwá, xjlús xj rj ywfxqzhj), vzj dt utslf js
uwjynsf f ráx ij zs sjlthnfsyj. Fltwf ijhni f jxj gzjs mtrgwj vzj jsywj;
ujwt fianéwyfxj uwnrjwt st xjf fqlzst ij qtx jxuífx, t rfyfitw rít.

-St, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq ufoj-, utwvzj ufwjhj zsf fqrf ij hásyfwt, d dt xé
utht, t éq jx yfs gzjst htrt jq gzjs ufs.

-St mfd vzj yjrjw -inot jq rfdtwitrt-, vzj fvzí jxyfrtx ytitx.

-¿Xjwíf utxngqj -inot Xfshmt-, rfjxywjxfqf, vzj fltwf vzj st jxyá fvzí jq
ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt, vzj htrnjxj dt fqlzsf htxf ij ujxt d ij xzxyfshnf,
fzsvzj kzjxj zs ujifet ij ufs d zsf hjgtqqf?

-Jxyf sthmj, f qf hjsf, xj xfynxkfwá qf kfqyf ij qf htrnif, d vzjifwá
Azjxywf Xjñtwíf xfynxkjhmt d uflfit -inot jq rfjxywjxfqf.

-Intx qt mflf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt.

D, js jxyt, jsywó jq qfgwfitw, vzj jwf ij rzd gzjsf uwjxjshnf, d ij rnq
qjlzfx xj qj jhmfgf ij ajw vzj jwf gzjst d gzjsf fqrf. Qt uwnrjwt vzj inot
kzj:

-¿Vznés jx fvzí jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw?

-¿Vznés mf ij xjw -wjxutsinó jq xjhwjyfwnt-, xnst jq vzj jxyá xjsyfit js qf
xnqqf?

-Mzríqqtrj, uzjx, f xz uwjxjshnf -inot jq qfgwfitw.

D, utsnésitxj ij wtinqqfx, qj uninó qf rfst ufwf gjxáwxjqf. Sjlóxjqf
Xfshmt, d rfsió vzj xj qjafsyfxj d inojxj qt vzj vznxnjxj. Míetqt fxí jq
qfgwfitw, d qzjlt inot:

-Dt, xjñtw, xtd qfgwfitw, sfyzwfq ij Rnlzjq Yzwwf, zs qzlfw vzj jxyá itx
qjlzfx ij Hnzifi Wjfq.

-¡Tywt Ynwyjfkzjwf yjsjrtx! -inot Xfshmt-. Ijhni, mjwrfst, vzj qt vzj dt tx
xé ijhnw jx vzj xé rzd gnjs f Rnlzjq Yzwwf, d vzj st jxyá rzd qjotx ij rn
uzjgqt.

-Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt, xjñtw -uwtxnlznó jq qfgwfitw-, vzj dt, utw qf
rnxjwnhtwinf ij Intx, xtd hfxfit js ufe d js mfe ij qf Xfsyf Nlqjxnf
Hfyóqnhf Wtrfsf; yjslt itx mnotx jxyzinfsyjx vzj jq rjstw jxyzinf ufwf
gfhmnqqjw d jq rfdtw ufwf qnhjshnfit; xtd anzit, utwvzj xj rzwnó rn rzojw,
t, utw rjotw ijhnw, rj qf rfyó zs rfq réinht, vzj qf uzwló jxyfsit uwjñfif,
d xn Intx kzjwf xjwanit vzj xfqnjwf f qze jq ufwyt, d kzjwf mnot, dt qj
uzxnjwj f jxyzinfw ufwf ithytw, utwvzj st yzanjwf nsaninf f xzx mjwrfstx jq
gfhmnqqjw d jq qnhjshnfit.

-Ij rtit -inot Xfshmt- vzj xn azjxywf rzojw st xj mzgnjwf rzjwyt, t qf
mzgnjwfs rzjwyt, atx st kzéwfijx fltwf anzit.

-St, xjñtw, js snslzsf rfsjwf -wjxutsinó jq qfgwfitw.

-¡Rjiwfitx jxyfrtx! -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. Fijqfsyj, mjwrfst, vzj jx mtwf ij
itwrnw ráx vzj ij sjlthnfw.

-Inlt, uzjx -inot jq qfgwfitw-, vzj jxyj rn mnot vzj mf ij xjw gfhmnqqjw xj
jsfrtwó js jq rjxrt uzjgqt ij zsf itshjqqf qqfrfif Hqfwf Ujwqjwnsf, mnof ij
Fsiwéx Ujwqjwnst, qfgwfitw wnvzíxnrt; d jxyj strgwj ij Ujwqjwnsjx st qjx
anjsj ij fgtqjslt sn tywf fqhzwsnf, xnst utwvzj ytitx qtx ijxyj qnsfoj xts
ujwqáynhtx, d utw rjotwfw jq strgwj qtx qqfrfs Ujwqjwnsjx; fzsvzj, xn af
ijhnw qf ajwifi, qf itshjqqf jx htrt zsf ujwqf twnjsyfq, d, rnwfif utw jq
qfit ijwjhmt, ufwjhj zsf kqtw ijq hfrut; utw jq nevznjwit st yfsyt, utwvzj
qj kfqyf fvzjq tot, vzj xj qj xfqyó ij anwzjqfx; d, fzsvzj qtx mtdtx ijq
wtxywt xts rzhmtx d lwfsijx, inhjs qtx vzj qf vznjwjs gnjs vzj fvzéqqtx st
xts mtdtx, xnst xjuzqyzwfx itsij xj xjuzqyfs qfx fqrfx ij xzx frfsyjx. Jx
yfs qnrunf vzj, utw st jsxzhnfw qf hfwf, ywfj qfx sfwnhjx, htrt inhjs,
fwwjrfslfifx, vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj afs mzdjsit ij qf gthf; d, hts ytit
jxyt, ufwjhj gnjs utw jxywjrt, utwvzj ynjsj qf gthf lwfsij, d, f st
kfqyfwqj inje t ithj injsyjx d rzjqfx, uzinjwf ufxfw d jhmfw wfdf jsywj qfx
ráx gnjs ktwrfifx. Ij qtx qfgntx st yjslt vzé ijhnw, utwvzj xts yfs xzynqjx
d ijqnhfitx vzj, xn xj zxfwfs fxufw qfgntx, uzinjwfs mfhjw ijqqtx zsf
rfijof; ujwt, htrt ynjsjs inkjwjsyj htqtw ij qf vzj js qtx qfgntx xj zxf
htrúsrjsyj, ufwjhjs rnqflwtxtx, utwvzj xts ofxujfitx ij fezq d ajwij d
fgjwjsojsfit; d ujwiósjrj jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw xn utw yfs rjszit atd
unsyfsit qfx ufwyjx ij qf vzj fq kns fq kns mf ij xjw rn mnof, vzj qf
vznjwt gnjs d st rj ufwjhj rfq.

-Unsyfi qt vzj vznxnéwjijx -inot Xfshmt-, vzj dt rj atd wjhwjfsit js qf
unsyzwf, d xn mzgnjwf htrnit, st mzgnjwf rjotw utxywj ufwf rí vzj azjxywt
wjywfyt.

-Jxt yjslt dt utw xjwanw -wjxutsinó jq qfgwfitw-, ujwt ynjrut ajsiwá js vzj
xjfrtx, xn fmtwf st xtrtx. D inlt, xjñtw, vzj xn uzinjwf unsyfw xz
ljsynqjef d qf fqyzwf ij xz hzjwut, kzjwf htxf ij firnwfhnós; ujwt st uzjij
xjw, f hfzxf ij vzj jqqf jxyá fltgnfif d jshtlnif, d ynjsj qfx wtinqqfx hts
qf gthf, d, hts ytit jxt, xj jhmf gnjs ij ajw vzj xn xj uzinjwf qjafsyfw,
injwf hts qf hfgjef js jq yjhmt; d df jqqf mzgnjwf ifit qf rfst ij jxutxf f
rn gfhmnqqjw, xnst vzj st qf uzjij jxyjsijw, vzj jxyá fñzifif; d, hts ytit,
js qfx zñfx qfwlfx d fhfsfqfifx xj rzjxywf xz gtsifi d gzjsf mjhmzwf.

-Jxyá gnjs -inot Xfshmt-, d mfhji hzjsyf, mjwrfst, vzj df qf mfgénx unsyfit
ij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef. ¿Vzé jx qt vzj vzjwénx fmtwf? D ajsni fq uzsyt xns
wtijtx sn hfqqjozjqfx, sn wjyfetx sn fñfinizwfx.

-Vzjwwíf, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq qfgwfitw-, vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj mnhnjxj
rjwhji ij ifwrj zsf hfwyf ij kfatw ufwf rn htsxzjlwt, xzuqnhásitqj xjf
xjwanit ij vzj jxyj hfxfrnjsyt xj mflf, uzjx st xtrtx ijxnlzfqjx js qtx
gnjsjx ij ktwyzsf, sn js qtx ij qf sfyzwfqjef; utwvzj, ufwf ijhnw qf
ajwifi, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, rn mnot jx jsijrtsnfit, d st mfd iíf vzj ywjx t
hzfywt ajhjx st qj fytwrjsyjs qtx rfqnlstx jxuíwnyzx; d ij mfgjw hfíit zsf
aje js jq kzjlt, ynjsj jq wtxywt fwwzlfit htrt ujwlfrnst, d qtx totx fqlt
qqtwtxtx d rfsfsynfqjx; ujwt ynjsj zsf htsinhnós ij zs ásljq, d xn st jx
vzj xj futwwjf d xj if ij uzñfifx éq rjxrt f xí rjxrt, kzjwf zs gjsinyt.

-¿Vzjwénx tywf htxf, gzjs mtrgwj? -wjuqnhó Xfshmt.

-Tywf htxf vzjwwíf -inot jq qfgwfitw-, xnst vzj st rj fywjat f ijhnwqt;
ujwt afdf, vzj, js kns, st xj rj mf ij utiwnw js jq ujhmt, ujlzj t st
ujlzj. Inlt, xjñtw, vzj vzjwwíf vzj azjxf rjwhji rj injxj ywjhnjsytx t
xjnxhnjsytx izhfitx ufwf fdzif f qf ityj ij rn gfhmnqqjw; inlt ufwf fdzif
ij utsjw xz hfxf, utwvzj, js kns, mfs ij ananw utw xí, xns jxyfw xzojytx f
qfx nrujwynsjshnfx ij qtx xzjlwtx.

-Rnwfi xn vzjwénx tywf htxf -inot Xfshmt-, d st qf ijoénx ij ijhnw utw
jrufhmt sn utw ajwlüjsef.

-St, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó jq qfgwfitw.

D, fujsfx inot jxyt, hzfsit, qjafsyásitxj js unj jq ltgjwsfitw, fxnó ij qf
xnqqf js vzj jxyfgf xjsyfit d inot:

-¡Atyt f yfq, its ufyás wúxynht d rfq rnwfit, vzj xn st tx fufwyánx d
fxhtsiénx qzjlt ij rn uwjxjshnf, vzj hts jxyf xnqqf tx wtruf d fgwf qf
hfgjef! Mnijuzyf gjqqfht, unsytw ijq rjxrt ijrtsnt, ¿d f jxyfx mtwfx yj
anjsjx f ujinwrj xjnxhnjsytx izhfitx?; d ¿iósij qtx yjslt dt, mjintsit?; d
¿utw vzé yj qtx mfgíf ij ifw, fzsvzj qtx yzanjwf, xthfwwós d rjsyjhfyt?; d
¿vzé xj rj if f rí ij Rnlzjq Yzwwf, sn ij ytit jq qnsfoj ij qtx Ujwqjwnsjx?
¡Af ij rí, inlt; xn st, utw anif ijq izvzj rn xjñtw, vzj mflf qt vzj yjslt
inhmt! Yú st ijgjx ij xjw ij Rnlzjq Yzwwf, xnst fqlús xthfwwós vzj, ufwf
yjsyfwrj, yj mf jsanfit fvzí jq nsknjwst. Inrj, ijxfqrfit, fús st mf iíf d
rjint vzj yjslt jq ltgnjwst, d ¿df vznjwjx vzj yjslf xjnxhnjsytx izhfitx?

Mnet ij xjñfx jq rfjxywjxfqf fq qfgwfitw vzj xj xfqnjxj ij qf xfqf, jq hzfq
qt mnet hfgnegfot d, fq ufwjhjw, yjrjwtxt ij vzj jq ltgjwsfitw st jojhzyfxj
xz hóqjwf, vzj jq gjqqfhós xzut mfhjw rzd gnjs xz tknhnt.

Ujwt ijojrtx hts xz hóqjwf f Xfshmt, d ásijxj qf ufe js jq htwwt, d
atqafrtx f its Vznotyj, vzj qj ijofrtx ajsifit jq wtxywt d hzwfit ij qfx
lfyjxhfx mjwnifx, ij qfx hzfqjx st xfsó js thmt iífx, js zst ij qtx hzfqjx
qj xzhjinó qt vzj Hnij Mfrjyj uwtrjyj ij htsyfw hts qf uzsyzfqnifi d
ajwifi vzj xzjqj htsyfw qfx htxfx ijxyf mnxytwnf, utw rísnrfx vzj xjfs.





Hfuíyzqt CQANNN. Ij qt vzj qj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj hts itñf Wtiwílzje, qf
izjñf ij qf izvzjxf, hts tywtx fhtsyjhnrnjsytx inlstx ij jxhwnyzwf d ij
rjrtwnf jyjwsf


Fijráx jxyfgf rtmíst d rfqjshóqnht jq rfq kjwnit its Vznotyj, ajsifit jq
wtxywt d xjñfqfit, st utw qf rfst ij Intx, xnst utw qfx zñfx ij zs lfyt,
ijxinhmfx fsjofx f qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf. Xjnx iífx jxyzat xns xfqnw js
uúgqnht, js zsf sthmj ij qfx hzfqjx, jxyfsit ijxunjwyt d ijxajqfit,
ujsxfsit js xzx ijxlwfhnfx d js jq ujwxjlznrnjsyt ij Fqynxnitwf, xnsynó vzj
hts zsf qqfaj fgwífs qf uzjwyf ij xz futxjsyt, d qzjlt nrflnsó vzj qf
jsfrtwfif itshjqqf ajsíf ufwf xtgwjxfqyfw xz mtsjxynifi d utsjwqj js
htsinhnós ij kfqyfw f qf kjj vzj lzfwifw ijgíf f xz xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt.

-St -inot hwjdjsit f xz nrflnsfhnós, d jxyt, hts ate vzj uzinjwf xjw tíif-;
st mf ij xjw ufwyj qf rfdtw mjwrtxzwf ij qf ynjwwf ufwf vzj dt ijoj ij
fitwfw qf vzj yjslt lwfgfif d jxyfrufif js qf rnyfi ij rn htwfeós d js qt
ráx jxhtsinit ij rnx jsywfñfx, twf jxyéx, xjñtwf ríf, ywfsxktwrfif js
hjgtqqzif qfgwfitwf, twf js snskf ijq itwfit Yfot, yjonjsit yjqfx ij twt d
xnwlt htruzjxyfx, twf yj yjslf Rjwqís, t Rtsyjxnstx, itsij jqqtx vznxnjwjs;
vzj, fitsijvznjwf jwjx ríf, d fitvznjwf mj xnit dt, d mj ij xjw, yzdt.

Jq fhfgfw jxyfx wfetsjx d jq fgwnw ij qf uzjwyf kzj ytit zst. Uúxtxj js unj
xtgwj qf hfrf, jsazjqyt ij fwwngf fgfot js zsf htqhmf ij wfxt frfwnqqt, zsf
lfqthmf js qf hfgjef, d jq wtxywt d qtx gnltyjx ajsifitx: jq wtxywt, utw
qtx fwzñtx; qtx gnltyjx, utwvzj st xj qj ijxrfdfxjs d hfdjxjs; js jq hzfq
ywfoj ufwjhíf qf ráx jcywftwinsfwnf kfsyfxrf vzj xj uzinjwf ujsxfw.

Hqfaó qtx totx js qf uzjwyf, d, hzfsit jxujwfgf ajw jsywfw utw jqqf f qf
wjsinif d qfxynrfif Fqynxnitwf, ant jsywfw f zsf wjajwjsiíxnrf izjñf hts
zsfx ythfx gqfshfx wjuzqlfifx d qzjslfx, yfsyt, vzj qf hzgwífs d jsrfsyfgfs
ijxij qtx unjx f qf hfgjef. Jsywj qtx ijitx ij qf rfst nevznjwif ywfíf zsf
rjinf ajqf jshjsinif, d hts qf ijwjhmf xj mfhíf xtrgwf, utwvzj st qj injxj
qf qze js qtx totx, f vznjs hzgwífs zstx rzd lwfsijx fsytotx. Ajsíf unxfsit
vzjinyt, d rtaíf qtx unjx gqfsifrjsyj.

Rnwóqf its Vznotyj ijxij xz fyfqfdf, d hzfsit ant xz fijqnñt d styó xz
xnqjshnt, ujsxó vzj fqlzsf gwzof t rflf ajsíf js fvzjq ywfoj f mfhjw js éq
fqlzsf rfqf kjhmzwíf, d htrjseó f xfsynlzfwxj hts rzhmf uwnjxf. Kzjxj
qqjlfsit qf anxnós, d, hzfsit qqjló f qf rnyfi ijq futxjsyt, fqeó qtx totx
d ant qf uwnjxf hts vzj xj jxyfgf mfhnjsit hwzhjx its Vznotyj; d xn éq
vzjió rjiwtxt js ajw yfq knlzwf, jqqf vzjió jxufsyfif js ajw qf xzdf,
utwvzj, fxí htrt qj ant yfs fqyt d yfs frfwnqqt, hts qf htqhmf d hts qfx
ajsifx, vzj qj ijxknlzwfgfs, int zsf lwfs ate, inhnjsit:

-¡Ojxúx! ¿Vzé jx qt vzj ajt?

D hts jq xtgwjxfqyt xj qj hfdó qf ajqf ij qfx rfstx; d, anésitxj f jxhzwfx,
atqanó qfx jxufqifx ufwf nwxj, d hts jq rnjit ywtujeó js xzx kfqifx d int
htsxnlt zsf lwfs hfíif. Its Vznotyj, yjrjwtxt, htrjseó f ijhnw:

-Htsoúwtyj, kfsyfxrf, t qt vzj jwjx, vzj rj inlfx vznés jwjx, d vzj rj
inlfx vzé jx qt vzj ij rí vznjwjx. Xn jwjx fqrf js ujsf, iírjqt, vzj dt
mfwé utw yn ytit hzfsyt rnx kzjwefx fqhfsefwjs, utwvzj xtd hfyóqnht
hwnxynfst d frnlt ij mfhjw gnjs f ytit jq rzsit; vzj ufwf jxyt ytré qf
twijs ij qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj vzj uwtkjxt, hzdt jojwhnhnt fzs mfxyf mfhjw
gnjs f qfx ásnrfx ij uzwlfytwnt xj jxynjsij.

Qf gwzrfif izjñf, vzj tdó htsozwfwxj, utw xz yjrtw htqnlnó jq ij its
Vznotyj, d hts ate fkqnlnif d gfof qj wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw its Vznotyj, xn jx vzj fhfxt azjxywf rjwhji jx its Vznotyj, dt st
xtd kfsyfxrf, sn anxnós, sn fqrf ij uzwlfytwnt, htrt azjxywf rjwhji ijgj ij
mfgjw ujsxfit, xnst itñf Wtiwílzje, qf izjñf ij mtstw ij rn xjñtwf qf
izvzjxf, vzj, hts zsf sjhjxnifi ij fvzjqqfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji xzjqj
wjrjinfw, f azjxywf rjwhji ajslt.

-Iílfrj, xjñtwf itñf Wtiwílzje -inot its Vznotyj-: ¿utw ajsyzwf anjsj
azjxywf rjwhji f mfhjw fqlzsf yjwhjwíf? Utwvzj qj mflt xfgjw vzj st xtd ij
uwtajhmt ufwf sfinj, rjwhji f qf xns ufw gjqqjef ij rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt. Inlt, js kns, xjñtwf itñf Wtiwílzje, vzj, htrt azjxywf rjwhji xfqaj
d ijoj f zsf ufwyj ytit wjhfit frtwtxt, uzjij atqajw f jshjsijw xz ajqf, d
azjqaf, d ijufwynwjrtx ij ytit qt vzj ráx rfsifwj d ráx js lzxyt qj
ansnjwj, xfqafsit, htrt inlt, ytit nshnyfynat rjqnsiwj.

-¿Dt wjhfit ij sfinj, xjñtw rít? -wjxutsinó qf izjñf-. Rfq rj htsthj
azjxywf rjwhji; xí, vzj fús st jxytd js jifi yfs uwtqtslfif vzj rj fhtof f
xjrjofsyjx snñjwífx, uzjx, Intx qtfit, rn fqrf rj yjslt js qfx hfwsjx, d
ytitx rnx injsyjx d rzjqfx js qf gthf, frés ij zstx uthtx vzj rj mfs
zxzwufit zstx hfyfwwtx, vzj js jxyf ynjwwf ij Fwflós xts yfs twinsfwntx.
Ujwt jxuéwjrj azjxywf rjwhji zs utht; xfqiwé f jshjsijw rn ajqf, d atqajwé
js zs nsxyfsyj f htsyfw rnx hznyfx, htrt f wjrjinfitw ij ytifx qfx ijq
rzsit.

D, xns jxujwfw wjxuzjxyf, xj xfqnó ijq futxjsyt, itsij vzjió its Vznotyj
xtxjlfit d ujsxfynat jxujwásitqf; ujwt qzjlt qj xtgwjansnjwts rnq
ujsxfrnjsytx fhjwhf ij fvzjqqf szjaf fajsyzwf, d ufwjhífqj xjw rfq mjhmt d
ujtw ujsxfit utsjwxj js ujqnlwt ij wtrujw f xz xjñtwf qf kjj uwtrjynif, d
ijhífxj f xí rnxrt:

-¿Vznés xfgj xn jq infgqt, vzj jx xzynq d rfñtxt, vzjwwá jslfñfwrj fltwf
hts zsf izjñf, qt vzj st mf utinit hts jrujwfywnhjx, wjnsfx, izvzjxfx,
rfwvzjxfx sn htsijxfx? Vzj dt mj tíit ijhnw rzhmfx ajhjx d f rzhmtx
inxhwjytx vzj, xn éq uzjij, fsyjx tx qf ifwá wtrf vzj flznqjñf. D ¿vznés
xfgj xn jxyf xtqjifi, jxyf thfxnós d jxyj xnqjshnt ijxujwyfwá rnx ijxjtx
vzj izjwrjs, d mfwás vzj fq hfgt ij rnx fñtx ajslf f hfjw itsij szshf mj
ywtujefit? D, js hfxtx xjrjofsyjx, rjotw jx mznw vzj jxujwfw qf gfyfqqf.
Ujwt dt st ijgt ij jxyfw js rn oznhnt, uzjx yfqjx inxufwfyjx inlt d unjsxt;
vzj st jx utxngqj vzj zsf izjñf ytvzngqfshf, qfwlf d fsytozsf uzjif rtajw
sn qjafsyfw ujsxfrnjsyt qfxhnat js jq ráx ijxfqrfit ujhmt ijq rzsit. ¿Utw
ajsyzwf mfd izjñf js qf ynjwwf vzj yjslf gzjsfx hfwsjx? ¿Utw ajsyzwf mfd
izjñf js jq twgj vzj ijoj ij xjw nrujwynsjsyj, kwzshnif d rjqnsiwtxf?
¡Fkzjwf, uzjx, hfyjwaf izjñjxhf, nsúynq ufwf snslús mzrfst wjlfqt! ¡Tm,
hzás gnjs mfhíf fvzjqqf xjñtwf ij vznjs xj inhj vzj yjsíf itx izjñfx ij
gzqyt hts xzx fsytotx d fqrtmfinqqfx fq hfgt ij xz jxywfit, htrt vzj
jxyfgfs qfgwfsit, d yfsyt qj xjwaífs ufwf qf fzytwnifi ij qf xfqf fvzjqqfx
jxyfyzfx htrt qfx izjñfx ajwifijwfx!

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj fwwtoó ijq qjhmt, hts nsyjshnós ij hjwwfw qf uzjwyf d
st ijofw jsywfw f qf xjñtwf Wtiwílzje; rfx, hzfsit qf qqjló f hjwwfw, df qf
xjñtwf Wtiwílzje atqaíf, jshjsinif zsf ajqf ij hjwf gqfshf, d hzfsit jqqf
ant f its Vznotyj ij ráx hjwhf, jsazjqyt js qf htqhmf, hts qfx ajsifx,
lfqthmf t gjhtvzís, yjrnó ij szjat, d, wjynwásitxj fywáx htrt itx ufxtx,
inot:

-¿Jxyfrtx xjlzwfx, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt? Utwvzj st yjslt f rzd mtsjxyf xjñfq
mfgjwxj azjxf rjwhji qjafsyfit ij xz qjhmt.

-Jxt rjxrt jx gnjs vzj dt uwjlzsyj, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d fxí,
uwjlzsyt xn jxyfwé dt xjlzwt ij xjw fhtrjynit d ktwefit.

-¿Ij vznés t f vznés ujiíx, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, jxf xjlzwnifi? -wjxutsinó qf
izjñf.

-F atx d ij atx qf unit -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, utwvzj sn dt xtd ij ráwrtq
sn atx ij gwtshj, sn fmtwf xts qfx inje ijq iíf, xnst rjinf sthmj, d fzs zs
utht ráx, xjlús nrflnst, d js zsf jxyfshnf ráx hjwwfif d xjhwjyf vzj qt
ijgnó ij xjw qf hzjaf itsij jq ywfnitw d fywjanit Jsjfx lteó f qf mjwrtxf d
unfitxf Init. Ujwt ifirj, xjñtwf, qf rfst, vzj dt st vznjwt tywf xjlzwnifi
rfdtw vzj qf ij rn htsynsjshnf d wjhfyt, d qf vzj tkwjhjs jxfx
wjajwjsiíxnrfx ythfx.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, gjxó xz ijwjhmf rfst, d qj fxnó ij qf xzdf, vzj jqqf qj
int hts qfx rjxrfx hjwjrtsnfx.

Fvzí mfhj Hnij Mfrjyj zs ufwésyjxnx, d inhj vzj utw Rfmtrf vzj injwf, utw
ajw nw f qtx itx fxí fxnitx d ywfgfitx ijxij qf uzjwyf fq qjhmt, qf rjotw
fqrfqfkf ij itx vzj yjsíf.

Jsywóxj, js kns, its Vznotyj js xz qjhmt, d vzjióxj itñf Wtiwílzje xjsyfif
js zsf xnqqf, fqlt ijxanfif ij qf hfrf, st vznyásitxj qtx fsytotx sn qf
ajqf. Its Vznotyj xj fhtwwzhó d xj hzgwnó ytit, st ijofsit ráx ij jq wtxywt
ijxhzgnjwyt; d, mfgnésitxj qtx itx xtxjlfit, jq uwnrjwt vzj wtrunó jq
xnqjshnt kzj its Vznotyj, inhnjsit:

-Uzjij azjxf rjwhji fmtwf, rn xjñtwf itñf Wtiwílzje, ijxhtxjwxj d ijxgzhmfw
ytit fvzjqqt vzj ynjsj ijsywt ij xz hznyfit htwfeós d qfxynrfifx jsywfñfx,
vzj xjwá ij rí jxhzhmfif hts hfxytx tíitx, d xthtwwnif hts unfitxfx tgwfx.

-Fxí qt hwjt dt -wjxutsinó qf izjñf-, vzj ij qf ljsynq d flwfifgqj
uwjxjshnf ij azjxf rjwhji st xj utiíf jxujwfw xnst yfs hwnxynfsf wjxuzjxyf.
«Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj, fzsvzj azjxf rjwhji rj ajj
xjsyfif js jxyf xnqqf d js qf rnyfi ijq wjnst ij Fwflós, d js mágnyt ij
izjñf fsnvznqfif d fxjsijwjfif, xtd sfyzwfq ij qfx Fxyzwnfx ij Tanjit, d ij
qnsfoj vzj fywfanjxfs utw éq rzhmtx ij qtx rjotwjx ij fvzjqqf uwtanshnf;
ujwt rn htwyf xzjwyj d jq ijxhznit ij rnx ufiwjx, vzj jrutgwjhnjwts fsyjx
ij ynjrut, xns xfgjw hórt sn hórt st, rj ywzojwts f qf htwyj, f Rfiwni,
itsij utw gnjs ij ufe d utw jxhzxfw rfdtwjx ijxajsyzwfx, rnx ufiwjx rj
fhtrtifwts f xjwanw ij itshjqqf ij qfgtw f zsf uwnshnufq xjñtwf; d vznjwt
mfhjw xfgnitw f azjxf rjwhji vzj js mfhjw afnsnqqfx d qfgtw gqfshf snslzsf
rj mf jhmfit jq unj fijqfsyj js ytif qf anif. Rnx ufiwjx rj ijofwts
xnwanjsit d xj atqanjwts f xz ynjwwf, d ij fqqí f uthtx fñtx xj ijgnjwts ij
nw fq hnjqt, utwvzj jwfs fijráx gzjstx d hfyóqnhtx hwnxynfstx. Vzjié
mzéwkfsf, d fyjsnif fq rnxjwfgqj xfqfwnt d f qfx fslzxynfifx rjwhjijx vzj
f qfx yfqjx hwnfifx xj xzjqj ifw js ufqfhnt; d, js jxyj ynjrut, xns vzj
injxj dt thfxnós f jqqt, xj jsfrtwó ij rn zs jxhzijwt ij hfxf, mtrgwj df js
iífx, gfwgzit d fujwxtsfit, d, xtgwj ytit, mnifqlt htrt jq wjd, utwvzj jwf
rtsyfñéx. St ywfyfrtx yfs xjhwjyfrjsyj szjxywtx frtwjx vzj st ansnjxjs f
stynhnf ij rn xjñtwf, qf hzfq, utw jxhzxfw inrjx d inwjyjx, stx hfxó js ufe
d js mfe ij qf Xfsyf Rfiwj Nlqjxnf Hfyóqnhf Wtrfsf, ij hzdt rfywnrtsnt
sfhnó zsf mnof ufwf wjrfyfw hts rn ajsyzwf, xn fqlzsf yjsíf; st utwvzj dt
rzwnjxj ijq ufwyt, vzj qj yzaj ijwjhmt d js xfeós, xnst utwvzj ijxij fqqí f
utht rzwnó rn jxutxt ij zs hnjwyt jxufsyt vzj yzat, vzj, f yjsjw fmtwf
qzlfw ufwf htsyfwqj, dt xé vzj azjxywf rjwhji xj firnwfwf.»

D, js jxyt, htrjseó f qqtwfw ynjwsfrjsyj, d inot:

-Ujwiósjrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj st af ráx js rn rfst,
utwvzj ytifx qfx ajhjx vzj rj fhzjwit ij rn rfq qtlwfit xj rj fwwfxfs qtx
totx ij qálwnrfx. ¡Aáqfrj Intx, d hts vzé fzytwnifi qqjafgf f rn xjñtwf f
qfx fshfx ij zsf utijwtxf rzqf, sjlwf htrt jq rnxrt fefgfhmj! Vzj jsytshjx
st xj zxfgfs hthmjx sn xnqqfx, htrt fltwf inhjs vzj xj zxfs, d qfx xjñtwfx
ngfs f qfx fshfx ij xzx jxhzijwtx. Jxyt, f qt rjstx, st uzjit ijofw ij
htsyfwqt, utwvzj xj styj qf hwnfsef d uzsyzfqnifi ij rn gzjs rfwnit. «Fq
jsywfw ij qf hfqqj ij Xfsynflt, js Rfiwni, vzj jx fqlt jxywjhmf, ajsíf f
xfqnw utw jqqf zs fqhfqij ij htwyj hts itx fqlzfhnqjx ijqfsyj, d, fxí htrt
rn gzjs jxhzijwt qj ant, atqanó qfx wnjsifx f qf rzqf, ifsit xjñfq ij
atqajw f fhtrufñfwqj. Rn xjñtwf, vzj ngf f qfx fshfx, hts ate gfof qj
ijhíf: ''-¿Vzé mfhénx, ijxajsyzwfit? ¿St ajnx vzj atd fvzí?'' Jq fqhfqij,
ij htrjinit, ijyzat qf wnjsif fq hfgfqqt d iíotqj: ''-Xjlzni, xjñtw,
azjxywt hfrnst, vzj dt xtd jq vzj ijgt fhtrufñfw f rn xjñtwf itñf
Hfxnqif'', vzj fxí jwf jq strgwj ij rn frf. Ytifaíf utwknfgf rn rfwnit, hts
qf ltwwf js qf rfst, f vzjwjw nw fhtrufñfsit fq fqhfqij, anjsit qt hzfq rn
xjñtwf, qqjsf ij hóqjwf d jstot, xfhó zs fqknqjw ltwit, t hwjt vzj zs
uzseós, ijq jxyzhmj, d hqfaóxjqj utw qtx qtrtx, ij rfsjwf vzj rn rfwnit int
zsf lwfs ate d ytwhnó jq hzjwut, ij xzjwyj vzj int hts xz xjñtwf js jq
xzjqt. Fhzinjwts itx qfhfdtx xzdtx f qjafsyfwqf, d qt rnxrt mnet jq fqhfqij
d qtx fqlzfhnqjx; fqgtwtyóxj qf Uzjwyf ij Lzfifqfofwf, inlt, qf ljsyj
gfqiíf vzj js jqqf jxyfgf; aístxj f unj rn frf, d rn rfwnit fhzinó js hfxf
ij zs gfwgjwt inhnjsit vzj qqjafgf ufxfifx ij ufwyj f ufwyj qfx jsywfñfx.
Inazqlóxj qf htwyjxíf ij rn jxutxt, yfsyt, vzj qtx rzhmfhmtx qj htwwífs utw
qfx hfqqjx, d utw jxyt d utwvzj éq jwf fqlús yfsyt htwyt ij anxyf, rn
xjñtwf qf izvzjxf qj ijxuninó, ij hzdt ujxfw, xns izif fqlzsf, yjslt ufwf
rí vzj xj qj hfzxó jq rfq ij qf rzjwyj. Vzjié dt anzif d ijxfrufwfif, d hts
mnof f hzjxyfx, vzj ngf hwjhnjsit js mjwrtxzwf htrt qf jxuzrf ij qf rfw.
Knsfqrjsyj, htrt dt yzanjxj kfrf ij lwfs qfgwfsijwf, rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf,
vzj jxyfgf wjhnés hfxfif hts jq izvzj rn xjñtw, vznxt ywfjwrj htsxnlt f
jxyj wjnst ij Fwflós d f rn mnof sn ráx sn rjstx, fitsij, djsit iífx d
ansnjsit iífx, hwjhnó rn mnof, d hts jqqf ytit jq itsfnwj ijq rzsit: hfsyf
htrt zsf hfqfsiwnf, ifsef htrt jq ujsxfrnjsyt, gfnqf htrt zsf ujwinif, qjj
d jxhwngj htrt zs rfjxywt ij jxhzjqf, d hzjsyf htrt zs fafwnjsyt. Ij xz
qnrunjef st inlt sfif: vzj jq flzf vzj htwwj st jx ráx qnrunf, d ijgj ij
yjsjw fltwf, xn rfq st rj fhzjwit, inje d xjnx fñtx, hnsht rjxjx d ywjx
iífx, zst ráx f rjstx. Js wjxtqzhnós: ij jxyf rn rzhmfhmf xj jsfrtwó zs
mnot ij zs qfgwfitw wnvzíxnrt vzj jxyá js zsf fqijf ijq izvzj rn xjñtw, st
rzd qjotx ij fvzí. Js jkjhyt, st xé hórt sn hórt st, jqqtx xj ozsyfwts, d,
ijgfot ij qf ufqfgwf ij xjw xz jxutxt, gzwqó f rn mnof, d st xj qf vznjwj
hzruqnw; d, fzsvzj jq izvzj rn xjñtw qt xfgj, utwvzj dt rj mj vzjofit f éq,
st zsf, xnst rzhmfx ajhjx, d ujiíitqj rfsij vzj jq yfq qfgwfitw xj hfxj hts
rn mnof, mfhj twjofx ij rjwhfijw d fujsfx vznjwj tíwrj; d jx qf hfzxf vzj,
htrt jq ufiwj ijq gzwqfitw jx yfs wnht d qj uwjxyf insjwtx, d qj xfqj utw
knfitw ij xzx ywfrufx utw rtrjsytx, st qj vznjwj ijxhtsyjsyfw sn ifw
ujxfizrgwj js snslús rtit.» Vzjwwíf, uzjx, xjñtw rít, vzj azjxf rjwhji
ytrfxj f hfwlt jq ijxmfhjw jxyj flwfant, t df utw wzjltx, t df utw fwrfx,
uzjx, xjlús ytit jq rzsit inhj, azjxf rjwhji sfhnó js éq ufwf ijxmfhjwqtx d
ufwf jsijwjefw qtx yzjwytx d frufwfw qtx rnxjwfgqjx; d uóslfxjqj f azjxf
rjwhji utw ijqfsyj qf twkfsifi ij rn mnof, xz ljsynqjef, xz rthjifi, hts
ytifx qfx gzjsfx ufwyjx vzj mj inhmt vzj ynjsj; vzj js Intx d js rn
htshnjshnf vzj ij hzfsyfx itshjqqfx ynjsj rn xjñtwf, vzj st mfd snslzsf vzj
qqjlzj f qf xzjqf ij xz efufyt, d vzj zsf vzj qqfrfs Fqynxnitwf, vzj jx qf
vzj ynjsjs utw ráx ijxjsazjqyf d lfqqfwif, uzjxyf js htrufwfhnós ij rn
mnof, st qf qqjlf hts itx qjlzfx. Utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjuf azjxf rjwhji,
xjñtw rít, vzj st jx ytit twt qt vzj wjqzhj; utwvzj jxyf Fqynxnitwnqqf
ynjsj ráx ij uwjxzshnós vzj ij mjwrtxzwf, d ráx ij ijxjsazjqyf vzj ij
wjhtlnif, fijráx vzj st jxyá rzd xfsf: vzj ynjsj zs hnjwyt fqqjsyt hfsxfit,
vzj st mfd xzkwnw jq jxyfw ozsyt f jqqf zs rtrjsyt. D fzs rn xjñtwf qf
izvzjxf... Vznjwt hfqqfw, vzj xj xzjqj ijhnw vzj qfx ufwjijx ynjsjs tíitx.

-¿Vzé ynjsj rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, utw anif ríf, xjñtwf itñf Wtiwílzje?
-uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Hts jxj htsozwt -wjxutsinó qf izjñf-, st uzjit ijofw ij wjxutsijw f qt vzj
xj rj uwjlzsyf hts ytif ajwifi. ¿Ajj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, qf
mjwrtxzwf ij rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, fvzjqqf yje ij wtxywt, vzj st ufwjhj
xnst ij zsf jxufif fhnhfqfif d yjwxf, fvzjqqfx itx rjonqqfx ij qjhmj d ij
hfwrís, vzj js qf zsf ynjsj jq xtq d js qf tywf qf qzsf, d fvzjqqf
lfqqfwiíf hts vzj af unxfsit d fzs ijxuwjhnfsit jq xzjqt, vzj st ufwjhj
xnst vzj af ijwwfrfsit xfqzi itsij ufxf? Uzjx xjuf azjxf rjwhji vzj qt
uzjij flwfijhjw, uwnrjwt, f Intx, d qzjlt, f itx kzjsyjx vzj ynjsj js qfx
itx unjwsfx, utw itsij xj ijxflzf ytit jq rfq mzrtw ij vznjs inhjs qtx
réinhtx vzj jxyá qqjsf.

-¡Xfsyf Rfwíf! -inot its Vznotyj-. D ¿jx utxngqj vzj rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf
yjslf yfqjx ijxflzfijwtx? St qt hwjdjwf xn rj qt inojwfs kwfnqjx ijxhfqetx;
ujwt, uzjx qf xjñtwf itñf Wtiwílzje qt inhj, ijgj ij xjw fxí. Ujwt yfqjx
kzjsyjx, d js yfqjx qzlfwjx, st ijgjs ij rfsfw mzrtw, xnst árgfw qívznit.
Ajwifijwfrjsyj vzj fmtwf fhfgt ij hwjjw vzj jxyt ij mfhjwxj kzjsyjx ijgj ij
xjw htxf nrutwyfsyj ufwf xfqzi.

Fujsfx fhfgó its Vznotyj ij ijhnw jxyf wfeós, hzfsit hts zs lwfs ltquj
fgwnjwts qfx uzjwyfx ijq futxjsyt, d ijq xtgwjxfqyt ijq ltquj xj qj hfdó f
itñf Wtiwílzje qf ajqf ij qf rfst, d vzjió qf jxyfshnf htrt gthf ij qtgt,
htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj. Qzjlt xnsynó qf utgwj izjñf vzj qf fxífs ij qf lfwlfsyf
hts itx rfstx, yfs kzjwyjrjsyj vzj st qf ijofgfs lfñnw, d vzj tywf ujwxtsf,
hts rzhmf uwjxyjef, xns mfgqfw ufqfgwf, qj fqefgf qfx kfqifx, d hts zsf, fq
ufwjhjw, hmnsjqf, qj htrjseó f ifw yfsytx fetyjx, vzj jwf zsf htrufxnós; d,
fzsvzj its Vznotyj xj qf yjsíf, st xj rjsjfgf ijq qjhmt, d st xfgíf vzé
utiíf xjw fvzjqqt, d jxyágfxj vzjit d hfqqfsit, d fzs yjrnjsit st ansnjxj
utw éq qf yfsif d yzsif fetyjxhf. D st kzj afst xz yjrtw, utwvzj, js
ijofsit rtqnif f qf izjñf qtx hfqqfitx ajwizltx (qf hzfq st txfgf
vzjofwxj), fhzinjwts f its Vznotyj, d, ijxjsatqanésitqj ij qf xágfsf d ij
qf htqhmf, qj ujqqnehfwts yfs f rjszit d yfs wjhnfrjsyj, vzj st uzit ijofw
ij ijkjsijwxj f uzñfifx, d ytit jxyt js xnqjshnt firnwfgqj. Izwó qf gfyfqqf
hfxn rjinf mtwf; xfqnéwtsxj qfx kfsyfxrfx, wjhtlnó itñf Wtiwílzje xzx
kfqifx, d, lnrnjsit xz ijxlwfhnf, xj xfqnó utw qf uzjwyf fkzjwf, xns ijhnw
ufqfgwf f its Vznotyj, jq hzfq, itqtwtxt d ujqqnehfit, htskzxt d ujsxfynat,
xj vzjió xtqt, itsij qj ijofwjrtx ijxjtxt ij xfgjw vznés mfgíf xnit jq
ujwajwxt jshfsyfitw vzj yfq qj mfgíf uzjxyt. Ujwt jqqt xj inwá f xz ynjrut,
vzj Xfshmt Ufsef stx qqfrf, d jq gzjs htshnjwyt ij qf mnxytwnf qt unij.





Hfuíyzqt CQNC. Ij qt vzj qj xzhjinó f Xfshmt Ufsef wtsifsit xz ísxzqf


Ijofrtx fq lwfs ltgjwsfitw jstofit d rtmíst hts jq qfgwfitw unsytw d
xthfwwós, jq hzfq, nsizxywnfit ijq rfdtwitrt, d jq rfdtwitrt ijq izvzj, xj
gzwqfgfs ij Xfshmt; ujwt éq xj qfx yjsíf ynjxfx f ytitx, rflzjwf ytsyt,
gwtsht d wtqqnet, d inot f qtx vzj hts éq jxyfgfs, d fq ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt,
vzj, htrt xj fhfgó jq xjhwjyt ij qf hfwyf ijq izvzj, mfgíf azjqyt f jsywfw
js qf xfqf:

-Fmtwf ajwifijwfrjsyj vzj jsynjsit vzj qtx ozjhjx d ltgjwsfitwjx ijgjs ij
xjw, t mfs ij xjw, ij gwtshj, ufwf st xjsynw qfx nrutwyzsnifijx ij qtx
sjlthnfsyjx, vzj f ytifx mtwfx d f ytitx ynjrutx vznjwjs vzj qtx jxhzhmjs d
ijxufhmjs, fyjsinjsit xóqt f xz sjlthnt, ajslf qt vzj ansnjwj; d xn jq
utgwj ijq ozje st qtx jxhzhmf d ijxufhmf, t utwvzj st uzjij t utwvzj st jx
fvzéq jq ynjrut inuzyfit ufwf ifwqjx fzinjshnf, qzjlt qjx rfqinhjs d
rzwrzwfs, d qjx wtjs qtx mzjxtx, d fzs qjx ijxqnsifs qtx qnsfojx.
Sjlthnfsyj sjhnt, sjlthnfsyj rjsyjhfyt, st yj fuwjxzwjx; jxujwf xfeós d
htdzsyzwf ufwf sjlthnfw: st ajslfx f qf mtwf ijq htrjw sn f qf ijq itwrnw,
vzj qtx ozjhjx xts ij hfwsj d ij mzjxt d mfs ij ifw f qf sfyzwfqjef qt vzj
sfyzwfqrjsyj qjx unij, xn st jx dt, vzj st qj itd ij htrjw f qf ríf, rjwhji
fq xjñtw ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt Ynwyjfkzjwf, vzj jxyá ijqfsyj, vzj vznjwj vzj
rzjwf ij mfrgwj, d fknwrf vzj jxyf rzjwyj jx anif, vzj fxí xj qf ié Intx f
éq d f ytitx qtx ij xz wfqjf: inlt, f qf ij qtx rfqtx réinhtx, vzj qf ij
qtx gzjstx, ufqrfx d qfzwtx rjwjhjs.

Ytitx qtx vzj htsthífs f Xfshmt Ufsef xj firnwfgfs, tdésitqj mfgqfw yfs
jqjlfsyjrjsyj, d st xfgífs f vzé fywngznwqt, xnst f vzj qtx tknhntx d
hfwltx lwfajx, t fitgfs t jsytwujhjs qtx jsyjsinrnjsytx. Knsfqrjsyj, jq
ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt Flüjwt ij Ynwyjfkzjwf uwtrjynó ij ifwqj ij hjsfw fvzjqqf
sthmj, fzsvzj jchjinjxj ij ytitx qtx fktwnxrtx ij Mnuóhwfyjx. Hts jxyt
vzjió htsyjsyt jq ltgjwsfitw, d jxujwfgf hts lwfsij fsxnf qqjlfxj qf sthmj
d qf mtwf ij hjsfw; d, fzsvzj jq ynjrut, fq ufwjhjw xzdt, xj jxyfgf vzjit,
xns rtajwxj ij zs qzlfw, ytifaíf xj qqjló utw éq jq yfsyt ijxjfit, itsij
qj injwts ij hjsfw zs xfqunhós ij afhf hts hjgtqqf, d zsfx rfstx hthnifx ij
yjwsjwf fqlt jsywfif js iífx. Jsywjlóxj js ytit hts ráx lzxyt vzj xn qj
mzgnjwfs ifit kwfshtqnsjx ij Rnqás, kfnxfsjx ij Wtrf, yjwsjwf ij Xtwwjsyt,
ujwinhjx ij Rtwós, t lfsxtx ij Qfafotx; d, jsywj qf hjsf, atqanésitxj fq
ithytw, qj inot:

-Rnwfi, xjñtw ithytw: ij fvzí fijqfsyj st tx hzwénx ij ifwrj f htrjw htxfx
wjlfqfifx sn rfsofwjx jxvznxnytx, utwvzj xjwá xfhfw f rn jxyórflt ij xzx
vznhntx, jq hzfq jxyá fhtxyzrgwfit f hfgwf, f afhf, f ythnst, f hjhnsf, f
sfgtx d f hjgtqqfx; d, xn fhfxt qj ifs tywtx rfsofwjx ij ufqfhnt, qtx
wjhngj hts rjqnsiwj, d fqlzsfx ajhjx hts fxht. Qt vzj jq rfjxywjxfqf uzjij
mfhjw jx ywfjwrj jxyfx vzj qqfrfs tqqfx utiwnifx, vzj rnjsywfx ráx utiwnifx
xts, rjotw mzjqjs, d js jqqfx uzjij jrgfzqfw d jshjwwfw ytit qt vzj éq
vznxnjwj, htrt xjf ij htrjw, vzj dt xj qt flwfijhjwé d xj qt uflfwé fqlús
iíf; d st xj gzwqj sfinj htsrnlt, utwvzj t xtrtx t st xtrtx: anafrtx ytitx
d htrfrtx js gzjsf ufe htrufñf, uzjx, hzfsit Intx frfsjhj, ufwf ytitx
frfsjhj. Dt ltgjwsfwé jxyf ísxzqf xns ujwitsfw ijwjhmt sn qqjafw htmjhmt, d
ytit jq rzsit ywfnlf jq tot fqjwyf d rnwj utw jq anwtyj, utwvzj qjx mflt
xfgjw vzj jq infgqt jxyá js Hfsynqqfsf, d vzj, xn rj ifs thfxnós, mfs ij
ajw rfwfanqqfx. St, xnst mfhjtx rnjq, d htrjwtx mfs rtxhfx.

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -inot jq rfjxywjxfqf-, vzj azjxf rjwhji ynjsj
rzhmf wfeós js hzfsyt mf inhmt, d vzj dt tkwjeht js strgwj ij ytitx qtx
nsxzqfstx ijxyf ísxzqf vzj mfs ij xjwanw f azjxywf rjwhji hts ytif
uzsyzfqnifi, frtw d gjsjatqjshnf, utwvzj jq xzfaj rtit ij ltgjwsfw vzj js
jxytx uwnshnuntx azjxf rjwhji mf ifit st qjx if qzlfw ij mfhjw sn ij ujsxfw
htxf vzj js ijxjwanhnt ij azjxf rjwhji wjizsij.

-Dt qt hwjt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d xjwífs jqqtx zstx sjhntx xn tywf htxf
mnhnjxjs t ujsxfxjs. D azjqat f ijhnw vzj xj yjslf hzjsyf hts rn xzxyjsyt d
hts jq ij rn wzhnt, vzj jx qt vzj js jxyj sjlthnt nrutwyf d mfhj ráx fq
hfxt; d, js xnjsit mtwf, afrtx f wtsifw, vzj jx rn nsyjshnós qnrunfw jxyf
ísxzqf ij ytit lésjwt ij nsrzsinhnf d ij ljsyj aflfrzsif, mtqlfefsjx, d rfq
jsywjyjsnif; utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjuánx, frnltx, vzj qf ljsyj gfqiíf d
ujwjetxf jx js qf wjuúgqnhf qt rjxrt vzj qtx eáslfstx js qfx htqrjsfx, vzj
xj htrjs qf rnjq vzj qfx ywfgfofitwfx fgjofx mfhjs. Unjsxt kfatwjhjw f qtx
qfgwfitwjx, lzfwifw xzx uwjjrnsjshnfx f qtx mnifqltx, uwjrnfw qtx anwyztxtx
d, xtgwj ytit, yjsjw wjxujyt f qf wjqnlnós d f qf mtswf ij qtx wjqnlntxtx.
¿Vzé tx ufwjhj ijxyt, frnltx? ¿Inlt fqlt, t vznégwtrj qf hfgjef?

-Inhj yfsyt azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -inot jq rfdtwitrt-, vzj jxytd
firnwfit ij ajw vzj zs mtrgwj yfs xns qjywfx htrt azjxf rjwhji, vzj, f qt
vzj hwjt, st ynjsj snslzsf, inlf yfqjx d yfsyfx htxfx qqjsfx ij xjsyjshnfx
d ij fanxtx, yfs kzjwf ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj ijq nsljsnt ij azjxf rjwhji
jxujwfgfs qtx vzj stx jsanfwts d qtx vzj fvzí ajsnrtx. Hfif iíf xj ajjs
htxfx szjafx js jq rzsit: qfx gzwqfx xj azjqajs js ajwfx d qtx gzwqfitwjx
xj mfqqfs gzwqfitx.

Qqjló qf sthmj, d hjsó jq ltgjwsfitw, hts qnhjshnf ijq xjñtw ithytw Wjhnt.
Fijwjeáwtsxj ij wtsif; xfqnó hts jq rfdtwitrt, xjhwjyfwnt d rfjxywjxfqf, d
jq htwtsnxyf vzj yjsíf hznifit ij utsjw js rjrtwnf xzx mjhmtx, d fqlzfhnqjx
d jxhwngfstx, yfsytx vzj utiífs ktwrfw zs rjinfst jxhzfiwós. Ngf Xfshmt js
rjint, hts xz afwf, vzj st mfgíf ráx vzj ajw, d uthfx hfqqjx fsififx ijq
qzlfw, xnsynjwts wznit ij hzhmnqqfifx; fhzinjwts fqqá, d mfqqfwts vzj jwfs
itx xtqtx mtrgwjx qtx vzj wjñífs, qtx hzfqjx, anjsit ajsnw f qf ozxynhnf,
xj jxyzanjwts vzjitx; d jq zst ijqqtx inot:

-¡Fvzí ij Intx d ijq wjd! ¿Hórt d vzj xj mf ij xzkwnw vzj wtgjs js utgqfit
js jxyj uzjgqt, d vzj xfqlf f xfqyjfw js éq js qf rnyfi ij qfx hfqqjx?

-Xtxjlftx, mtrgwj ij gnjs -inot Xfshmt-, d htsyfirj vzé jx qf hfzxf ijxyf
ujsijshnf, vzj dt xtd jq ltgjwsfitw.

Jq tywt htsywfwnt inot:

-Xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, dt qf inwé hts ytif gwjajifi. Azjxywf rjwhji xfgwá vzj
jxyj ljsynqmtrgwj fhfgf ij lfsfw fmtwf js jxyf hfxf ij ozjlt vzj jxyá fvzí
kwtsyjwt ráx ij rnq wjfqjx, d xfgj Intx hórt; d, mfqqásitrj dt uwjxjsyj,
ozelzé ráx ij zsf xzjwyj izitxf js xz kfatw, htsywf ytit fvzjqqt vzj rj
inhyfgf qf htshnjshnf; fqeóxj hts qf lfsfshnf, d, hzfsit jxujwfgf vzj rj
mfgíf ij ifw fqlús jxhzit, utw qt rjstx, ij gfwfyt, htrt jx zxt d htxyzrgwj
ifwqj f qtx mtrgwjx uwnshnufqjx htrt dt, vzj jxyfrtx fxnxyjsyjx ufwf gnjs d
rfq ufxfw, d ufwf futdfw xnswfetsjx d janyfw ujsijshnfx, éq jrgtqxó xz
insjwt d xj xfqnó ij qf hfxf. Dt ansj ijxujhmfit ywfx éq, d hts gzjsfx d
htwyjxjx ufqfgwfx qj mj ujinit vzj rj injxj xnvznjwf thmt wjfqjx, uzjx xfgj
vzj dt xtd mtrgwj mtswfit d vzj st yjslt tknhnt sn gjsjknhnt, utwvzj rnx
ufiwjx st rj qj jsxjñfwts sn rj qj ijofwts, d jq xthfwwós, vzj st jx ráx
qfiwós vzj Hfht, sn ráx kzqqjwt vzj Fsiwfinqqf, st vzjwíf ifwrj ráx ij
hzfywt wjfqjx; ¡utwvzj ajf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, vzé uthf
ajwlüjsef d vzé uthf htshnjshnf! Ujwt f kjj vzj, xn azjxf rjwhji st
qqjlfwf, vzj dt qj mnhnjwf atrnyfw qf lfsfshnf, d vzj mfgíf ij xfgjw hts
hzásyfx jsywfgf qf wtrfsf.

-¿Vzé ijhíx atx f jxyt? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

D jq tywt wjxutsinó vzj jwf ajwifi hzfsyt xz htsywfwnt ijhíf, d st mfgíf
vzjwnit ifwqj ráx ij hzfywt wjfqjx utwvzj xj qtx ifgf rzhmfx ajhjx; d qtx
vzj jxujwfs gfwfyt mfs ij xjw htrjinitx d ytrfw hts wtxywt fqjlwj qt vzj
qjx injwjs, xns utsjwxj js hzjsyfx hts qtx lfsfshntxtx, xn df st xzunjxjs
ij hnjwyt vzj xts kzqqjwtx d vzj qt vzj lfsfs jx rfq lfsfit; d vzj, ufwf
xjñfq vzj éq jwf mtrgwj ij gnjs d st qfiwós, htrt ijhíf, snslzsf mfgíf
rfdtw vzj jq st mfgjwqj vzjwnit ifw sfif; vzj xnjruwj qtx kzqqjwtx xts
ywngzyfwntx ij qtx rnwtsjx vzj qtx htsthjs.

-Fxí jx -inot jq rfdtwitrt-. Ajf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, vzé jx
qt vzj xj mf ij mfhjw ijxytx mtrgwjx.

-Qt vzj xj mf ij mfhjw jx jxyt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: atx, lfsfshntxt, gzjst,
t rfqt, t nsinkjwjsyj, ifi qzjlt f jxyj azjxywt fhzhmnqqfitw hnjs wjfqjx, d
ráx, mfgénx ij ijxjrgtqxfw ywjnsyf ufwf qtx utgwjx ij qf háwhjq; d atx, vzj
st yjsénx tknhnt sn gjsjknhnt d fsiánx ij stsjx js jxyf ísxzqf, ytrfi qzjlt
jxtx hnjs wjfqjx, d rfñfsf js ytit jq iíf xfqni ijxyf ísxzqf ijxyjwwfit utw
inje fñtx, xt ujsf, xn qt vzjgwfsyáwjijx, qtx hzruqánx js qf tywf anif,
htqlásittx dt ij zsf unhtyf, t, f qt rjstx, jq ajwizlt utw rn rfsifit; d
snslzst rj wjuqnvzj, vzj qj fxjsyfwé qf rfst.

Ijxjrgtqxó jq zst, wjhngnó jq tywt, éxyj xj xfqnó ij qf ísxzqf, d fvzéq xj
kzj f xz hfxf, d jq ltgjwsfitw vzjió inhnjsit:

-Fmtwf, dt utiwé utht, t vznyfwé jxyfx hfxfx ij ozjlt, vzj f rí xj rj
ywfxqzhj vzj xts rzd ujwozinhnfqjx.

-Éxyf, f qt rjstx -inot zs jxhwngfst-, st qf utiwá azjxf rjwhji vznyfw,
utwvzj qf ynjsj zs lwfs ujwxtsfoj, d ráx jx xns htrufwfhnós qt vzj éq
unjwij fq fñt vzj qt vzj xfhf ij qtx sfnujx. Htsywf tywtx lfwnytx ij rjstw
hfsyíf utiwá azjxywf rjwhji rtxywfw xz utijw, vzj xts qtx vzj ráx ifñt
mfhjs d ráx nsxtqjshnfx jshzgwjs; vzj js qfx hfxfx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx
uwnshnufqjx d ij qtx xjñtwjx st xj fywjajs qtx kfrtxtx kzqqjwtx f zxfw ij
xzx ywjyfx; d, uzjx jq anhnt ijq ozjlt xj mf azjqyt js jojwhnhnt htrús,
rjotw jx vzj xj ozjlzj js hfxfx uwnshnufqjx vzj st js qf ij fqlús tknhnfq,
itsij htljs f zs ijxinhmfit ij rjinf sthmj fgfot d qj ijxzjqqfs anat.

-Fltwf, jxhwngfst -inot Xfshmt-, dt xé vzj mfd rzhmt vzj ijhnw js jxt.

D, js jxyt, qqjló zs htwhmjyj vzj ywfíf fxnit f zs rtet, d inot:

-Xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, jxyj rfshjgt ajsíf mfhnf stxtywtx, d, fxí htrt htqzrgwó
qf ozxynhnf, atqanó qfx jxufqifx d htrjseó f htwwjw htrt zs lfrt, xjñfq vzj
ijgj ij xjw fqlús ijqnshzjsyj. Dt ufwyí ywfx éq, d, xn st kzjwf utwvzj
ywtujeó d hfdó, st qj fqhfsefwf ofráx.

-¿Utw vzé mzífx, mtrgwj? -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt.

F qt vzj jq rtet wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw, utw jxhzxfw ij wjxutsijw f qfx rzhmfx uwjlzsyfx vzj qfx ozxynhnfx
mfhjs.

-¿Vzé tknhnt ynjsjx?

-Yjojitw.

-¿D vzé yjojx?

-Mnjwwtx ij qfsefx, hts qnhjshnf gzjsf ij azjxywf rjwhji.

-¿Lwfhntxnht rj xtnx? ¿Ij hmthfwwjwt tx unhánx? ¡Jxyá gnjs! D ¿fiósij
ígfijx fmtwf?

-Xjñtw, f ytrfw jq fnwj.

-D ¿fiósij xj ytrf jq fnwj js jxyf ísxzqf?

-Fitsij xtuqf.

-¡Gzjst: wjxutsiénx rzd f uwtuóxnyt! Inxhwjyt xtnx, rfshjgt; ujwt mfhji
hzjsyf vzj dt xtd jq fnwj, d vzj tx xtuqt js utuf, d tx jshfrnst f qf
háwhjq. ¡Fxnqij, mtqf, d qqjafiqj, vzj dt mfwé vzj izjwrf fqqí xns fnwj
jxyf sthmj!

-¡Ufw Intx -inot jq rtet-, fxí rj mflf azjxywf rjwhji itwrnw js qf háwhjq
htrt mfhjwrj wjd!

-Uzjx, ¿utw vzé st yj mfwé dt itwrnw js qf háwhjq? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. ¿St
yjslt dt utijw ufwf uwjsijwyj d xtqyfwyj hfif d hzfsit vzj vznxnjwj?

-Utw ráx utijw vzj azjxywf rjwhji yjslf -inot jq rtet-, st xjwá gfxyfsyj
ufwf mfhjwrj itwrnw js qf háwhjq.

-¿Hórt vzj st? -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. Qqjafqij qzjlt itsij ajwá utw xzx totx jq
ijxjslfñt, fzsvzj ráx jq fqhfnij vznjwf zxfw hts éq ij xz nsyjwjxfq
qngjwfqnifi; vzj dt qj utsiwé ujsf ij itx rnq izhfitx xn yj ijof xfqnw zs
ufxt ij qf háwhjq.

-Ytit jxt jx htxf ij wnxf -wjxutsinó jq rtet-. Jq hfxt jx vzj st rj mfwás
itwrnw js qf háwhjq hzfsytx mtd anajs.

-Inrj, ijrtsnt -inot Xfshmt-, ¿ynjsjx fqlús ásljq vzj yj xfvzj d vzj yj
vznyj qtx lwnqqtx vzj yj unjsxt rfsifw jhmfw?

-Fmtwf, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -wjxutsinó jq rtet hts rzd gzjs itsfnwj-, jxyjrtx
f wfeós d ajslfrtx fq uzsyt. Uwtxzutslf azjxywf rjwhji vzj rj rfsif qqjafw
f qf háwhjq, d vzj js jqqf rj jhmfs lwnqqtx d hfijsfx, d vzj rj rjyjs js zs
hfqfgtet, d xj qj utsjs fq fqhfnij lwfajx ujsfx xn rj ijof xfqnw, d vzj éq
qt hzruqj htrt xj qj rfsif; hts ytit jxyt, xn dt st vznjwt itwrnw, d
jxyfwrj ijxunjwyt ytif qf sthmj, xns ujlfw ujxyfñf, ¿xjwá azjxywf rjwhji
gfxyfsyj hts ytit xz utijw ufwf mfhjwrj itwrnw, xn dt st vznjwt?

-St, utw hnjwyt -inot jq xjhwjyfwnt-, d jq mtrgwj mf xfqnit hts xz
nsyjshnós.

-Ij rtit -inot Xfshmt- vzj st ijofwénx ij itwrnw utw tywf htxf vzj utw
azjxywf atqzsyfi, d st utw htsywfajsnw f qf ríf.

-St, xjñtw -inot jq rtet-, sn utw unjsxt.

-Uzjx fsifi hts Intx -inot Xfshmt-; nitx f itwrnw f azjxywf hfxf, d Intx tx
ié gzjs xzjñt, vzj dt st vznjwt vznyáwtxqj; ujwt fhtsxéottx vzj ij fvzí
fijqfsyj st tx gzwqénx hts qf ozxynhnf, utwvzj ytufwénx hts fqlzsf vzj tx
ié hts qf gzwqf js qtx hfxhtx.

Kzjxj jq rtet, d jq ltgjwsfitw uwtxnlznó hts xz wtsif, d ij fqqí f utht
ansnjwts itx htwhmjyjx vzj ywfífs f zs mtrgwj fxnit, d inojwts:

-Xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, jxyj vzj ufwjhj mtrgwj st qt jx, xnst rzojw, d st kjf,
vzj anjsj ajxynif js mágnyt ij mtrgwj.

Qqjláwtsqj f qtx totx itx t ywjx qfsyjwsfx, f hzdfx qzhjx ijxhzgwnjwts zs
wtxywt ij zsf rzojw, fq ufwjhjw, ij inje d xjnx t uthtx ráx fñtx, wjhtlnitx
qtx hfgjqqtx hts zsf wjijhnqqf ij twt d xjif ajwij, mjwrtxf htrt rnq
ujwqfx. Rnwáwtsqf ij fwwngf fgfot, d anjwts vzj ajsíf hts zsfx rjinfx ij
xjif jshfwsfif, hts qnlfx ij yfkjyás gqfsht d wfufhjotx ij twt d fqoókfw;
qtx lwjlzjxhtx jwfs ajwijx, ij yjqf ij twt, d zsf xfqyfjrgfwhf t wtunqqf ij
qt rjxrt, xzjqyf, ijgfot ij qf hzfq ywfíf zs ozgós ij yjqf knsíxnrf ij twt
d gqfsht, d qtx efufytx jwfs gqfshtx d ij mtrgwj. St ywfíf jxufif hjñnif,
xnst zsf wnvzíxnrf iflf, d js qtx ijitx, rzhmtx d rzd gzjstx fsnqqtx.
Knsfqrjsyj, qf rtef ufwjhíf gnjs f ytitx, d snslzst qf htsthnó ij hzfsytx
qf anjwts, d qtx sfyzwfqjx ijq qzlfw inojwts vzj st utiífs ujsxfw vznés
kzjxj, d qtx htsxfgnitwjx ij qfx gzwqfx vzj xj mfgífs ij mfhjw f Xfshmt
kzjwts qtx vzj ráx xj firnwfwts, utwvzj fvzjq xzhjxt d mfqqfelt st ajsíf
twijsfit utw jqqtx; d fxí, jxyfgfs izitxtx, jxujwfsit js vzé ufwfwíf jq
hfxt.

Xfshmt vzjió ufxrfit ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf rtef, d uwjlzsyóqj vznés jwf,
fiósij ngf d vzé thfxnós qj mfgíf rtanit ufwf ajxynwxj js fvzjq mágnyt.
Jqqf, uzjxytx qtx totx js ynjwwf hts mtsjxyíxnrf ajwlüjsef, wjxutsinó:

-St uzjit, xjñtw, ijhnw yfs js uúgqnht qt vzj yfsyt rj nrutwyfgf kzjwf
xjhwjyt; zsf htxf vznjwt vzj xj jsynjsif: vzj st xtd qfiwós sn ujwxtsf
kfhnstwtxf, xnst zsf itshjqqf ijxinhmfif f vznjs qf kzjwef ij zstx hjqtx mf
mjhmt wtrujw jq ijhtwt vzj f qf mtsjxynifi xj ijgj.

Tdjsit jxyt jq rfdtwitrt, inot f Xfshmt:

-Mflf, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, fufwyfw qf ljsyj, utwvzj jxyf xjñtwf hts rjstx
jrufhmt uzjif ijhnw qt vzj vznxnjwj.

Rfsióqt fxí jq ltgjwsfitw; fufwyáwtsxj ytitx, xn st kzjwts jq rfdtwitrt,
rfjxywjxfqf d jq xjhwjyfwnt. Anésitxj, uzjx, xtqtx, qf itshjqqf uwtxnlznó
inhnjsit:

-«Dt, xjñtwjx, xtd mnof ij Ujiwt Uéwje Rfetwhf, fwwjsifitw ij qfx qfsfx
ijxyj qzlfw, jq hzfq xzjqj rzhmfx ajhjx nw js hfxf ij rn ufiwj.»

-Jxt st qqjaf hfrnst -inot jq rfdtwitrt-, xjñtwf, utwvzj dt htsteht rzd
gnjs f Ujiwt Uéwje d xé vzj st ynjsj mnot snslzst, sn afwós sn mjrgwf; d
ráx, vzj ijhíx vzj jx azjxywt ufiwj, d qzjlt fñfiíx vzj xzjqj nw rzhmfx
ajhjx js hfxf ij azjxywt ufiwj.

-Df dt mfgíf ifit js jqqt -inot Xfshmt.

-Fmtwf, xjñtwjx, dt jxytd yzwgfif, d st xé qt vzj rj inlt -wjxutsinó qf
itshjqqf-; ujwt qf ajwifi jx vzj dt xtd mnof ij Injlt ij qf Qqfsf, vzj
ytitx azjxfx rjwhjijx ijgjs ij htsthjw.

-Fús jxt qqjaf hfrnst -wjxutsinó jq rfdtwitrt-, vzj dt htsteht f Injlt ij
qf Qqfsf, d xé vzj jx zs mnifqlt uwnshnufq d wnht, d vzj ynjsj zs mnot d
zsf mnof, d vzj ijxuzéx vzj jsanzió st mf mfgnit sfinj js ytit jxyj qzlfw
vzj uzjif ijhnw vzj mf anxyt jq wtxywt ij xz mnof; vzj qf ynjsj yfs
jshjwwfif vzj st if qzlfw fq xtq vzj qf ajf; d, hts ytit jxyt, qf kfrf inhj
vzj jx js jxywjrt mjwrtxf.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó qf itshjqqf-, d jxf mnof xtd dt; xn qf kfrf
rnjsyj t st js rn mjwrtxzwf df tx mfgwénx, xjñtwjx, ijxjslfñfit, uzjx rj
mfgénx anxyt.

D, js jxyt, htrjseó f qqtwfw ynjwsfrjsyj; anjsit qt hzfq jq xjhwjyfwnt, xj
qqjló fq tíit ijq rfjxywjxfqf d qj inot rzd ufxt:

-Xns izif fqlzsf vzj f jxyf utgwj itshjqqf qj ijgj ij mfgjw xzhjinit fqlt
ij nrutwyfshnf, uzjx js yfq ywfoj, d f yfqjx mtwfx, d xnjsit yfs uwnshnufq,
fsif kzjwf ij xz hfxf.

-St mfd izifw js jxt -wjxutsinó jq rfjxywjxfqf-; d ráx, vzj jxf xtxujhmf qf
htsknwrfs xzx qálwnrfx.

Xfshmt qf htsxtqó hts qfx rjotwjx wfetsjx vzj éq xzut, d qj uninó vzj xns
yjrtw fqlzst qjx inojxj qt vzj qj mfgíf xzhjinit; vzj ytitx uwthzwfwífs
wjrjinfwqt hts rzhmfx ajwfx d utw ytifx qfx aífx utxngqjx.

-«Jx jq hfxt, xjñtwjx -wjxutsinó jqqf-, vzj rn ufiwj rj mf yjsnit jshjwwfif
inje fñtx mf, vzj xts qtx rnxrtx vzj f rn rfiwj htrj qf ynjwwf. Js hfxf
inhjs rnxf js zs wnht twfytwnt, d dt js ytit jxyj ynjrut st mj anxyt vzj jq
xtq ijq hnjqt ij iíf, d qf qzsf d qfx jxywjqqfx ij sthmj, sn xé vzé xts
hfqqjx, uqfefx, sn yjruqtx, sn fzs mtrgwjx, kzjwf ij rn ufiwj d ij zs
mjwrfst rít, d ij Ujiwt Uéwje jq fwwjsifitw, vzj, utw jsywfw ij twinsfwnt
js rn hfxf, xj rj fsytoó ijhnw vzj jwf rn ufiwj, utw st ijhqfwfw jq rít.
Jxyj jshjwwfrnjsyt d jxyj sjlfwrj jq xfqnw ij hfxf, xnvznjwf f qf nlqjxnf,
mf rzhmtx iífx d rjxjx vzj rj ywfj rzd ijxhtsxtqfif; vznxnjwf dt ajw jq
rzsit, t, f qt rjstx, jq uzjgqt itsij sfhí, ufwjhnésitrj vzj jxyj ijxjt st
ngf htsywf jq gzjs ijhtwt vzj qfx itshjqqfx uwnshnufqjx ijgjs lzfwifw f xí
rjxrfx. Hzfsit tíf ijhnw vzj htwwífs ytwtx d ozlfgfs hfñfx, d xj
wjuwjxjsyfgfs htrjinfx, uwjlzsyfgf f rn mjwrfst, vzj jx zs fñt rjstw vzj
dt, vzj rj inojxj vzé htxfx jwfs fvzéqqfx d tywfx rzhmfx vzj dt st mj
anxyt; éq rj qt ijhqfwfgf utw qtx rjotwjx rtitx vzj xfgíf, ujwt ytit jwf
jshjsijwrj ráx jq ijxjt ij ajwqt. Knsfqrjsyj, utw fgwjanfw jq hzjsyt ij rn
ujwinhnós, inlt vzj dt wtlzé d ujií f rn mjwrfst, vzj szshf yfq uninjwf sn
yfq wtlfwf...»

D ytwsó f wjstafw jq qqfsyt. Jq rfdtwitrt qj inot:

-Uwtxnlf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtwf, d fhfgj ij ijhnwstx qt vzj qj mf xzhjinit,
vzj stx ynjsjs f ytitx xzxujsxtx xzx ufqfgwfx d xzx qálwnrfx.

-Uthfx rj vzjifs utw ijhnw -wjxutsinó qf itshjqqf-, fzsvzj rzhmfx qálwnrfx
xí vzj qqtwfw, utwvzj qtx rfq htqthfitx ijxjtx st uzjijs ywfjw htsxnlt
tywtx ijxhzjsytx vzj qtx xjrjofsyjx.

Mfgífxj xjsyfit js jq fqrf ijq rfjxywjxfqf qf gjqqjef ij qf itshjqqf, d
qqjló tywf aje xz qfsyjwsf ufwf ajwqf ij szjat; d ufwjhnóqj vzj st jwfs
qálwnrfx qfx vzj qqtwfgf, xnst fqoókfw t wthít ij qtx uwfitx, d fzs qfx
xzgíf ij uzsyt d qfx qqjlfgf f ujwqfx twnjsyfqjx, d jxyfgf ijxjfsit vzj xz
ijxlwfhnf st kzjxj yfsyf htrt ifgfs f jsyjsijw qtx nsinhntx ij xz qqfsyt d
ij xzx xzxunwtx. Ijxjxujwágfxj jq ltgjwsfitw ij qf yfwifsef vzj yjsíf qf
rtef js inqfyfw xz mnxytwnf, d iíotqj vzj fhfgfxj ij yjsjwqtx ráx
xzxujsxtx, vzj jwf yfwij d kfqyfgf rzhmt vzj fsifw ijq uzjgqt. Jqqf, jsywj
nsyjwwtytx xtqqtetx d rfq ktwrfitx xzxunwtx, inot:

-«St jx tywf rn ijxlwfhnf, sn rn nsktwyzsnt jx tywt xnst vzj dt wtlzé f rn
mjwrfst vzj rj anxynjxj js mágnytx ij mtrgwj hts zst ij xzx ajxynitx d vzj
rj xfhfxj zsf sthmj f ajw ytit jq uzjgqt, hzfsit szjxywt ufiwj izwrnjxj;
éq, nrutwyzsfit ij rnx wzjltx, htsijhjsinó hts rn ijxjt, d, utsnésitrj jxyj
ajxynit d éq ajxynésitxj ij tywt rít, vzj qj jxyá htrt sfhnit, utwvzj éq st
ynjsj ujqt ij gfwgf d st ufwjhj xnst zsf itshjqqf mjwrtxíxnrf, jxyf sthmj,
ijgj ij mfgjw zsf mtwf, utht ráx t rjstx, stx xfqnrtx ij hfxf; d, lznfitx
ij szjxywt rtet d ijxgfwfyfit inxhzwxt, mjrtx wtijfit ytit jq uzjgqt, d
hzfsit vzjwífrtx atqajw f hfxf, anrtx ajsnw zs lwfs ywtujq ij ljsyj, d rn
mjwrfst rj inot: ''Mjwrfsf, éxyf ijgj ij xjw qf wtsif: fqnljwf qtx unjx d
uts fqfx js jqqtx, d ajsyj ywfx rí htwwnjsit, utwvzj st stx htstehfs, vzj
stx xjwá rfq htsyfit''. D, inhnjsit jxyt, atqanó qfx jxufqifx d htrjseó, st
inlt f htwwjw, xnst f atqfw; dt, f rjstx ij xjnx ufxtx, hfí, hts jq
xtgwjxfqyt, d jsytshjx qqjló jq rnsnxywt ij qf ozxynhnf vzj rj ywzot fsyj
azjxywfx rjwhjijx, fitsij, utw rfqf d fsytofinef, rj ajt fajwltsefif fsyj
yfsyf ljsyj.»

-¿Js jkjhyt, xjñtwf -inot Xfshmt-, st tx mf xzhjinit tywt ijxrás fqlzst, sn
hjqtx, htrt atx fq uwnshnunt ij azjxywt hzjsyt inonxyjx, st tx xfhfwts ij
azjxywf hfxf?

-St rj mf xzhjinit sfif, sn rj xfhfwts hjqtx, xnst xóqt jq ijxjt ij ajw
rzsit, vzj st xj jxyjsiíf f ráx vzj f ajw qfx hfqqjx ij jxyj qzlfw.

D fhfgó ij htsknwrfw xjw ajwifi qt vzj qf itshjqqf ijhíf qqjlfw qtx
htwhmjyjx hts xz mjwrfst uwjxt, f vznjs fqhfseó zst ijqqtx hzfsit xj mzdó
ij xz mjwrfsf. St ywfíf xnst zs kfqijqqís wnht d zsf rfsyjqqnsf ij ifrfxht
fezq hts ufxfrfstx ij twt knst, qf hfgjef xns ythf sn hts tywf htxf
fitwsfif vzj hts xzx rjxrtx hfgjqqtx, vzj jwfs xtwynofx ij twt, xjlús jwfs
wzgntx d jswnefitx. Fufwyáwtsxj hts jq ltgjwsfitw, rfdtwitrt d rfjxywjxfqf,
d, xns vzj qt tdjxj xz mjwrfsf, qj uwjlzsyfwts hórt ajsíf js fvzjq ywfoj, d
éq, hts st rjstx ajwlüjsef d jrufhmt, htsyó qt rjxrt vzj xz mjwrfsf mfgíf
htsyfit, ij vzj wjhngnó lwfs lzxyt jq jsfrtwfit rfjxywjxfqf. Ujwt jq
ltgjwsfitw qjx inot:

-Utw hnjwyt, xjñtwjx, vzj éxyf mf xnit zsf lwfs wfufhjwíf, d ufwf htsyfw
jxyf sjhjifi d fywjanrnjsyt st jwfs rjsjxyjw yfsyfx qfwlfx, sn yfsyfx
qálwnrfx d xzxunwtx; vzj hts ijhnw: ''Xtrtx kzqfst d kzqfsf, vzj stx
xfqnrtx f jxufhnfw ij hfxf ij szjxywtx ufiwjx hts jxyf nsajshnós, xóqt utw
hzwntxnifi, xns tywt ijxnlsnt fqlzst'', xj fhfgfwf jq hzjsyt, d st
ljrninhtx, d qqtwfrnhtx, d ifwqj.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó qf itshjqqf-, ujwt xjufs azjxfx rjwhjijx vzj
qf yzwgfhnós vzj mj yjsnit mf xnit yfsyf, vzj st rj mf ijofit lzfwifw jq
yéwrnst vzj ijgíf.

-St xj mf ujwinit sfif -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Afrtx, d ijofwjrtx f azjxfx
rjwhjijx js hfxf ij xz ufiwj; vzneá st qtx mfgwá jhmfit rjstx. D, ij fvzí
fijqfsyj, st xj rzjxywjs yfs snñtx, sn yfs ijxjtxtx ij ajw rzsit, vzj qf
itshjqqf mtswfif, qf unjwsf vzjgwfif, d js hfxf; d qf rzojw d qf lfqqnsf,
utw fsifw xj unjwijs físf; d qf vzj jx ijxjtxf ij ajw, yfrgnés ynjsj ijxjt
ij xjw anxyf. St inlt ráx.

Jq rfshjgt flwfijhnó fq ltgjwsfitw qf rjwhji vzj vzjwíf mfhjwqjx ij
atqajwqtx f xz hfxf, d fxí, xj jshfrnsfwts mfhnf jqqf, vzj st jxyfgf rzd
qjotx ij fqqí. Qqjlfwts, uzjx, d, ynwfsit jq mjwrfst zsf hmnsf f zsf wjof,
fq rtrjsyt gfoó zsf hwnfif, vzj qtx jxyfgf jxujwfsit, d qjx fgwnó qf
uzjwyf, d jqqtx xj jsywfwts, ijofsit f ytitx firnwfitx, fxí ij xz ljsynqjef
d mjwrtxzwf htrt ijq ijxjt vzj yjsífs ij ajw rzsit, ij sthmj d xns xfqnw
ijq qzlfw; ujwt ytit qt fywngzdjwts f xz uthf jifi.

Vzjió jq rfjxywjxfqf ywfxufxfit xz htwfeós, d uwtuzxt ij qzjlt tywt iíf
ujiíwxjqf utw rzojw f xz ufiwj, yjsnjsit utw hnjwyt vzj st xj qf sjlfwíf,
utw xjw éq hwnfit ijq izvzj; d fzs f Xfshmt qj ansnjwts ijxjtx d gfwwzsytx
ij hfxfw fq rtet hts Xfshmnhf, xz mnof, d ijyjwrnsó ij utsjwqt js uqáynhf f
xz ynjrut, iásitxj f jsyjsijw vzj f zsf mnof ij zs ltgjwsfitw snslús rfwnit
xj qj utiíf sjlfw.

Hts jxyt, xj fhfgó qf wtsif ij fvzjqqf sthmj, d ij fqqí f itx iífx jq
ltgnjwst, hts vzj xj ijxywtshfwts d gtwwfwts ytitx xzx ijxnlsntx, htrt xj
ajwá fijqfsyj.





Hfuíyzqt Q. Itsij xj ijhqfwf vznés kzjwts qtx jshfsyfitwjx d ajwizltx vzj
fetyfwts f qf izjñf d ujqqnehfwts d fwfñfwts f its Vznotyj, hts jq xzhjxt
vzj yzat jq ufoj vzj qqjaó qf hfwyf f Yjwjxf Xfshmf, rzojw ij Xfshmt Ufsef


Inhj Hnij Mfrjyj, uzsyzfqíxnrt jxhziwnñfitw ij qtx áytrtx ijxyf ajwifijwf
mnxytwnf, vzj fq ynjrut vzj itñf Wtiwílzje xfqnó ij xz futxjsyt ufwf nw f
qf jxyfshnf ij its Vznotyj, tywf izjñf vzj hts jqqf itwríf qt xnsynó, d
vzj, htrt ytifx qfx izjñfx xts frnlfx ij xfgjw, jsyjsijw d tqjw, xj kzj
ywfx jqqf, hts yfsyt xnqjshnt, vzj qf gzjsf Wtiwílzje st qt jhmó ij ajw; d,
fxí htrt qf izjñf qf ant jsywfw js qf jxyfshnf ij its Vznotyj, utwvzj st
kfqyfxj js jqqf qf ljsjwfq htxyzrgwj vzj ytifx qfx izjñfx ynjsjs ij xjw
hmnxrtxfx, fq rtrjsyt qt kzj f utsjw js unht f xz xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, ij
hórt itñf Wtiwílzje vzjifgf js jq futxjsyt ij its Vznotyj.

Qf izvzjxf xj qt inot fq izvzj, d qj uninó qnhjshnf ufwf vzj jqqf d
Fqynxnitwf ansnjxjs f ajw qt vzj fvzjqqf izjñf vzjwíf hts its Vznotyj; jq
izvzj xj qf int, d qfx itx, hts lwfs ynjsyt d xtxnjlt, ufxt fsyj ufxt,
qqjlfwts f utsjwxj ozsyt f qf uzjwyf ijq futxjsyt, d yfs hjwhf, vzj tífs
ytit qt vzj ijsywt mfgqfgfs; d, hzfsit tdó qf izvzjxf vzj Wtiwílzje mfgíf
jhmfit js qf hfqqj jq Fwfsozje ij xzx kzjsyjx, st qt uzit xzkwnw, sn rjstx
Fqynxnitwf; d fxí, qqjsfx ij hóqjwf d ijxjtxfx ij ajslfsef, jsywfwts ij
ltquj js jq futxjsyt, d fhwjgnqqfwts f its Vznotyj d afuzqfwts f qf izjñf
ijq rtit vzj vzjif htsyfit; utwvzj qfx fkwjsyfx vzj afs ijwjhmfx htsywf qf
mjwrtxzwf d uwjxzshnós ij qfx rzojwjx, ijxunjwyf js jqqfx js lwfs rfsjwf qf
nwf d jshnjsij jq ijxjt ij ajslfwxj.

Htsyó qf izvzjxf fq izvzj qt vzj qj mfgíf ufxfit, ij qt vzj xj mtqló rzhmt,
d qf izvzjxf, uwtxnlznjsit hts xz nsyjshnós ij gzwqfwxj d wjhngnw
ufxfynjrut hts its Vznotyj, ijxufhmó fq ufoj vzj mfgíf mjhmt qf knlzwf ij
Izqhnsjf js jq htshnjwyt ij xz ijxjshfsyt -vzj yjsíf gnjs tqanifit Xfshmt
Ufsef hts qf thzufhnós ij xz ltgnjwst- f Yjwjxf Ufsef, xz rzojw, hts qf
hfwyf ij xz rfwnit, d hts tywf xzdf, d hts zsf lwfs xfwyf ij htwfqjx wnhtx
uwjxjsyfitx.

Inhj, uzjx, qf mnxytwnf, vzj jq ufoj jwf rzd inxhwjyt d flzit, d, hts ijxjt
ij xjwanw f xzx xjñtwjx, ufwynó ij rzd gzjsf lfsf fq qzlfw ij Xfshmt; d,
fsyjx ij jsywfw js éq, ant js zs fwwtdt jxyfw qfafsit hfsynifi ij rzojwjx,
f vznjs uwjlzsyó xn qj xfgwífs ijhnw xn js fvzjq qzlfw anaíf zsf rzojw
qqfrfif Yjwjxf Ufsef, rzojw ij zs hnjwyt Xfshmt Ufsef, jxhzijwt ij zs
hfgfqqjwt qqfrfit its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, f hzdf uwjlzsyf xj qjafsyó js
unj zsf rtezjqf vzj jxyfgf qfafsit, d inot:

-Jxf Yjwjxf Ufsef jx rn rfiwj, d jxj yfq Xfshmt, rn xjñtw ufiwj, d jq yfq
hfgfqqjwt, szjxywt frt.

-Uzjx ajsni, itshjqqf -inot jq ufoj-, d rtxywfirj f azjxywf rfiwj, utwvzj
qj ywfnlt zsf hfwyf d zs uwjxjsyj ijq yfq azjxywt ufiwj.

-Jxt mfwé dt ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, xjñtw rít -wjxutsinó qf rtef, vzj rtxywfgf
xjw ij jifi ij hfytwhj fñtx, utht ráx f rjstx.

D, ijofsit qf wtuf vzj qfafgf f tywf htrufñjwf, xns ythfwxj sn hfqefwxj,
vzj jxyfgf js unjwsfx d ijxlwjñfif, xfqyó ijqfsyj ij qf hfgfqlfizwf ijq
ufoj, d inot:

-Ajslf azjxf rjwhji, vzj f qf jsywfif ijq uzjgqt jxyá szjxywf hfxf, d rn
rfiwj js jqqf, hts mfwyf ujsf utw st mfgjw xfgnit rzhmtx iífx mf ij rn
xjñtw ufiwj.

-Uzjx dt xj qfx qqjat yfs gzjsfx -inot jq ufoj- vzj ynjsj vzj ifw gnjs
lwfhnfx f Intx utw jqqfx.

Knsfqrjsyj, xfqyfsit, htwwnjsit d gwnshfsit, qqjló fq uzjgqt qf rzhmfhmf,
d, fsyjx ij jsywfw js xz hfxf, inot f athjx ijxij qf uzjwyf:

-Xfqlf, rfiwj Yjwjxf, xfqlf, xfqlf, vzj anjsj fvzí zs xjñtw vzj ywfj hfwyfx
d tywfx htxfx ij rn gzjs ufiwj.

F hzdfx athjx xfqnó Yjwjxf Ufsef, xz rfiwj, mnqfsit zs htut ij jxytuf, hts
zsf xfdf ufwif. Ufwjhíf, xjlús jwf ij htwyf, vzj xj qf mfgífs htwyfit utw
ajwltsetxt qzlfw, hts zs htwujezjqt fxnrnxrt ufwit d zsf hfrnxf ij ujhmtx.
St jwf rzd anjof, fzsvzj rtxywfgf ufxfw ij qtx hzfwjsyf, ujwt kzjwyj,
ynjxf, sjwazif d fajqqfsfif; qf hzfq, anjsit f xz mnof, d fq ufoj f
hfgfqqt, qj inot:

-¿Vzé jx jxyt, snñf? ¿Vzé xjñtw jx éxyj?

-Jx zs xjwanitw ij rn xjñtwf itñf Yjwjxf Ufsef -wjxutsinó jq ufoj.

D, inhnjsit d mfhnjsit, xj fwwtoó ijq hfgfqqt d xj kzj hts rzhmf mzrnqifi f
utsjw ij mnstotx fsyj qf xjñtwf Yjwjxf, inhnjsit:

-Iérj azjxywf rjwhji xzx rfstx, rn xjñtwf itñf Yjwjxf, gnjs fxí htrt rzojw
qjlíynrf d ufwynhzqfw ijq xjñtw its Xfshmt Ufsef, ltgjwsfitw uwtunt ij qf
ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf.

-¡Fd, xjñtw rít, vzíyjxj ij fmí; st mflf jxt -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-, vzj dt st
xtd sfif ufqfhnjlf, xnst zsf utgwj qfgwfitwf, mnof ij zs jxywnufyjwwtsjx d
rzojw ij zs jxhzijwt fsifsyj, d st ij ltgjwsfitw fqlzst!

-Azjxf rjwhji -wjxutsinó jq ufoj- jx rzojw inlsíxnrf ij zs ltgjwsfitw
fwhmninlsíxnrt; d, ufwf uwzjgf ijxyf ajwifi, wjhngf azjxf rjwhji jxyf hfwyf
d jxyj uwjxjsyj.

D xfhó fq nsxyfsyj ij qf kfqiwnvzjwf zsf xfwyf ij htwfqjx hts jxywjrtx ij
twt, d xj qf jhmó fq hzjqqt d inot:

-Jxyf hfwyf jx ijq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, d tywf vzj ywfnlt d jxytx htwfqjx xts
ij rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, vzj f azjxywf rjwhji rj jsaíf.

Vzjió ufxrfif Yjwjxf, d xz mnof sn ráx sn rjstx, d qf rzhmfhmf inot:

-Vzj rj rfyjs xn st fsif utw fvzí szjxywt xjñtw frt its Vznotyj, vzj ijgj
ij mfgjw ifit f ufiwj jq ltgnjwst t htsifit vzj yfsyfx ajhjx qj mfgíf
uwtrjynit.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -wjxutsinó jq ufoj-: vzj, utw wjxujyt ijq xjñtw its
Vznotyj, jx fmtwf jq xjñtw Xfshmt ltgjwsfitw ij qf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf, htrt
xj ajwá utw jxyf hfwyf.

-Qéfrjqf azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw ljsynqmtrgwj -inot Yjwjxf-, utwvzj, fzsvzj dt
xé mnqfw, st xé qjjw rnlfof.

-Sn dt yfrutht -fñfinó Xfshmnhf-; ujwt jxuéwjsrj fvzí, vzj dt nwé f qqfrfw
vznjs qf qjf, twf xjf jq hzwf rjxrt, t jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, vzj
ajsiwás ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, utw xfgjw szjafx ij rn ufiwj.

-St mfd ufwf vzé xj qqfrj f sfinj, vzj dt st xé mnqfw, ujwt xé qjjw, d qf
qjjwé.

D fxí, xj qf qjdó ytif, vzj, utw vzjifw df wjkjwnif, st xj utsj fvzí; d
qzjlt xfhó tywf ij qf izvzjxf, vzj ijhíf ijxyf rfsjwf:

Frnlf Yjwjxf:

Qfx gzjsfx ufwyjx ij qf gtsifi d ijq nsljsnt ij azjxywt rfwnit Xfshmt rj
rtanjwts d tgqnlfwts f ujinw f rn rfwnit jq izvzj qj injxj zs ltgnjwst ij
zsf ísxzqf, ij rzhmfx vzj ynjsj. Yjslt stynhnf vzj ltgnjwsf htrt zs
lnwnkfqyj, ij qt vzj dt jxytd rzd htsyjsyf, d jq izvzj rn xjñtw, utw jq
htsxnlznjsyj; utw qt vzj itd rzhmfx lwfhnfx fq hnjqt ij st mfgjwrj jslfñfit
js mfgjwqj jxhtlnit ufwf jq yfq ltgnjwst; utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjuf qf xjñtwf
Yjwjxf vzj hts inknhzqyfi xj mfqqf zs gzjs ltgjwsfitw js jq rzsit, d yfq rj
mflf f rí Intx htrt Xfshmt ltgnjwsf.

Fmí qj jsaít, vzjwnif ríf, zsf xfwyf ij htwfqjx hts jxywjrtx ij twt; dt rj
mtqlfwf vzj kzjwf ij ujwqfx twnjsyfqjx, ujwt vznjs yj if jq mzjxt, st yj
vzjwwíf ajw rzjwyf: ynjrut ajsiwá js vzj stx htstehfrtx d stx htrzsnvzjrtx,
d Intx xfgj qt vzj xjwá. Jshtrnésijrj f Xfshmnhf, xz mnof, d iílfqj ij rn
ufwyj vzj xj fufwjoj, vzj qf yjslt ij hfxfw fqyfrjsyj hzfsit rjstx qt
unjsxj.

Iíhjsrj vzj js jxj qzlfw mfd gjqqtyfx ltwifx: jsaíjrj mfxyf itx ithjsfx,
vzj qfx jxynrfwé js rzhmt, utw xjw ij xz rfst, d jxhwígfrj qfwlt,
fanxásitrj ij xz xfqzi d ij xz gnjsjxyfw; d xn mzgnjwj rjsjxyjw fqlzsf
htxf, st ynjsj vzj mfhjw ráx vzj gtvzjfw: vzj xz gthf xjwá rjinif, d Intx
rj qf lzfwij. Ijxyj qzlfw.

Xz frnlf, vzj gnjs qf vznjwj,

Qf Izvzjxf.

-¡Fd -inot Yjwjxf js tdjsit qf hfwyf-, d vzé gzjsf d vzé qqfsf d vzé
mzrnqij xjñtwf! Hts jxyfx yfqjx xjñtwfx rj jsynjwwjs f rí, d st qfx
mnifqlfx vzj js jxyj uzjgqt xj zxfs, vzj unjsxfs vzj utw xjw mnifqlfx st
qfx mf ij ythfw jq anjsyt, d afs f qf nlqjxnf hts yfsyf kfsyfxíf htrt xn
kzjxjs qfx rjxrfx wjnsfx, vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj ynjsjs f ijxmtswf jq rnwfw
f zsf qfgwfitwf; d ajnx fvzí itsij jxyf gzjsf xjñtwf, hts xjw izvzjxf, rj
qqfrf frnlf, d rj ywfyf htrt xn kzjwf xz nlzfq, vzj nlzfq qf ajf dt hts jq
ráx fqyt hfrufsfwnt vzj mfd js qf Rfshmf. D, js qt vzj ythf f qfx gjqqtyfx,
xjñtw rít, dt qj jsanfwé f xz xjñtwíf zs hjqjrís, vzj utw ltwifx qfx uzjijs
ajsnw f ajw f qf rnwf d f qf rfwfanqqf. D utw fmtwf, Xfshmnhf, fynjsij f
vzj xj wjlfqj jxyj xjñtw: uts js twijs jxyj hfgfqqt, d xfhf ij qf
hfgfqqjwnef lüjatx, d htwyf ythnst fizsnf, d iértxqj ij htrjw htrt f zs
uwíshnuj, vzj qfx gzjsfx szjafx vzj stx mf ywfíit d qf gzjsf hfwf vzj éq
ynjsj qt rjwjhj ytit; d, js yfsyt, xfqiwé dt f ifw f rnx ajhnsfx qfx szjafx
ij szjxywt htsyjsyt, d fq ufiwj hzwf d f rfjxj Snhtqáx jq gfwgjwt, vzj yfs
frnltx xts d mfs xnit ij yz ufiwj.

-Xí mfwé, rfiwj -wjxutsinó Xfshmnhf-; ujwt rnwj vzj rj mf ij ifw qf rnyfi
ijxf xfwyf; vzj st yjslt dt utw yfs gtgf f rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf, vzj xj qf
mfgíf ij jsanfw f jqqf ytif.

-Ytit jx ufwf yn, mnof -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-, ujwt iéofrjqf ywfjw fqlzstx
iífx fq hzjqqt, vzj ajwifijwfrjsyj ufwjhj vzj rj fqjlwf jq htwfeós.

-Yfrgnés xj fqjlwfwás -inot jq ufoj- hzfsit ajfs jq qít vzj anjsj js jxyj
utwyfrfsyjt, vzj jx zs ajxynit ij ufñt knsíxnrt vzj jq ltgjwsfitw xóqt zs
iíf qqjaó f hfef, jq hzfq ytit qj jsaíf ufwf qf xjñtwf Xfshmnhf.

-Vzj rj anaf éq rnq fñtx -wjxutsinó Xfshmnhf-, d jq vzj qt ywfj, sn ráx sn
rjstx, d fzs itx rnq, xn kzjwj sjhjxnifi.

Xfqnóxj js jxyt Yjwjxf kzjwf ij hfxf, hts qfx hfwyfx, d hts qf xfwyf fq
hzjqqt, d ngf yfñjsit js qfx hfwyfx htrt xn kzjwf js zs ufsijwt; d,
jshtsywásitxj fhfxt hts jq hzwf d Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, htrjseó f gfnqfw d f
ijhnw:

-¡F kjj vzj fltwf vzj st mfd ufwnjsyj utgwj! ¡Ltgnjwsnyt yjsjrtx! ¡St, xnst
yórjxj htsrnlt qf ráx unsyfif mnifqlf, vzj dt qf utsiwé htrt szjaf!

-¿Vzé jx jxyt, Yjwjxf Ufsef? ¿Vzé qthzwfx xts éxyfx, d vzé ufujqjx xts
éxtx?

-St jx tywf qf qthzwf xnst vzj éxyfx xts hfwyfx ij izvzjxfx d ij
ltgjwsfitwjx, d jxytx vzj ywfnlt fq hzjqqt xts htwfqjx knstx; qfx fajrfwífx
d qtx ufiwjx szjxywtx xts ij twt ij rfwynqqt, d dt xtd ltgjwsfitwf.

-Ij Intx js fdzxt, st tx jsyjsijrtx, Yjwjxf, sn xfgjrtx qt vzj tx ijhíx.

-Fmí qt utiwás ajw jqqtx -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf.

D intqjx qfx hfwyfx. Qjdóqfx jq hzwf ij rtit vzj qfx tdó Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, d
Xfsxós d jq hzwf xj rnwfwts jq zst fq tywt, htrt firnwfitx ij qt vzj mfgífs
qjíit; d uwjlzsyó jq gfhmnqqjw vznés mfgíf ywfíit fvzjqqfx hfwyfx.
Wjxutsinó Yjwjxf vzj xj ansnjxjs hts jqqf f xz hfxf d ajwífs jq rjsxfojwt,
vzj jwf zs rfshjgt htrt zs unst ij twt, d vzj qj ywfíf tywt uwjxjsyj vzj
afqíf ráx ij yfsyt. Vznyóqj jq hzwf qtx htwfqjx ijq hzjqqt, d rnwóqtx d
wjrnwóqtx, d, hjwynknhásitxj vzj jwfs knstx, ytwsó f firnwfwxj ij szjat, d
inot:

-Utw jq mágnyt vzj yjslt, vzj st xé vzé rj inlf sn vzé rj unjsxj ij jxyfx
hfwyfx d ijxytx uwjxjsyjx: utw zsf ufwyj, ajt d ytht qf knsjef ij jxytx
htwfqjx, d utw tywf, qjt vzj zsf izvzjxf jsaíf f ujinw itx ithjsfx ij
gjqqtyfx.

-¡Fijwéefrj jxfx rjinifx! -inot jsytshjx Hfwwfxht-. Fltwf gnjs, afrtx f ajw
fq utwyfitw ijxyj uqnjlt, vzj iéq stx nsktwrfwjrtx ij qfx inknhzqyfijx vzj
xj stx tkwjhjs.

Mnhnéwtsqt fxí, d atqanóxj Yjwjxf hts jqqtx. Mfqqfwts fq ufoj hwngfsit zs
utht ij hjgfif ufwf xz hfgfqlfizwf, d f Xfshmnhf htwyfsit zs ytwwjest ufwf
jrujiwfwqj hts lüjatx d ifw ij htrjw fq ufoj, hzdf uwjxjshnf d gzjs fitwst
htsyjsyó rzhmt f qtx itx; d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj xfqzifit htwyéxrjsyj, d éq
f jqqtx, qj uwjlzsyó Xfsxós qjx inojxj szjafx fxí ij its Vznotyj htrt ij
Xfshmt Ufsef; vzj, uzjxyt vzj mfgífs qjíit qfx hfwyfx ij Xfshmt d ij qf
xjñtwf izvzjxf, ytifaíf jxyfgfs htskzxtx d st fhfgfgfs ij fynsfw vzé xjwíf
fvzjqqt ijq ltgnjwst ij Xfshmt, d ráx ij zsf ísxzqf, xnjsit ytifx t qfx ráx
vzj mfd js jq rfw Rjinyjwwásjt ij Xz Rfojxyfi. F qt vzj jq ufoj wjxutsinó:

-Ij vzj jq xjñtw Xfshmt Ufsef xjf ltgjwsfitw, st mfd vzj izifw js jqqt; ij
vzj xjf ísxzqf t st qf vzj ltgnjwsf, js jxt st rj jsywjrjyt, ujwt gfxyf vzj
xjf zs qzlfw ij ráx ij rnq ajhnstx; d, js hzfsyt f qt ij qfx gjqqtyfx, inlt
vzj rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf jx yfs qqfsf d yfs mzrnqij, vzj st -ijhíf éq-
jsanfw f ujinw gjqqtyfx f zsf qfgwfitwf, ujwt vzj qj fhtsyjhíf jsanfw f
ujinw zs ujnsj uwjxyfit f zsf ajhnsf xzdf. Utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjufs azjxywfx
rjwhjijx vzj qfx xjñtwfx ij Fwflós, fzsvzj xts yfs uwnshnufqjx, st xts yfs
uzsyztxfx d qjafsyfifx htrt qfx xjñtwfx hfxyjqqfsfx; hts ráx qqfsjef ywfyfs
hts qfx ljsyjx.

Jxyfsit js qf rnyfi ijxyfx uqáynhfx, xfqyó Xfshmnhf hts zs mfqif ij lüjatx,
d uwjlzsyó fq ufoj:

-Iílfrj, xjñtw: ¿rn xjñtw ufiwj ywfj utw ajsyzwf hfqefx fyfhfifx ijxuzéx
vzj jx ltgjwsfitw?

-St mj rnwfit js jqqt -wjxutsinó jq ufoj-, ujwt xí ijgj ij ywfjw.

-¡Fd Intx rít -wjuqnhó Xfshmnhf-, d vzj xjwá ij ajw f rn ufiwj hts
ujitwwjwfx! ¿St jx gzjst xnst vzj ijxij vzj sfhí yjslt ijxjt ij ajw f rn
ufiwj hts hfqefx fyfhfifx?

-Htrt hts jxfx htxfx qj ajwá azjxywf rjwhji xn anaj -wjxutsinó jq ufoj-.
Ufw Intx, yéwrnstx qqjaf ij hfrnsfw hts ufufmílt, hts xtqtx itx rjxjx vzj
qj izwj jq ltgnjwst.

Gnjs jhmfwts ij ajw jq hzwf d jq gfhmnqqjw vzj jq ufoj mfgqfgf
xthfwwtsfrjsyj, ujwt qf knsjef ij qtx htwfqjx d jq ajxynit ij hfef vzj
Xfshmt jsanfgf qt ijxmfhíf ytit; vzj df Yjwjxf qjx mfgíf rtxywfit jq
ajxynit. D st ijofwts ij wjíwxj ijq ijxjt ij Xfshmnhf, d ráx hzfsit Yjwjxf
inot:

-Xjñtw hzwf, jhmj hfyf utw fmí xn mfd fqlznjs vzj afdf f Rfiwni, t f
Ytqjit, ufwf vzj rj htruwj zs ajwizlfit wjitsit, mjhmt d ijwjhmt, d xjf fq
zxt d ij qtx rjotwjx vzj mzgnjwj; vzj js ajwifi js ajwifi vzj yjslt ij
mtswfw jq ltgnjwst ij rn rfwnit js hzfsyt dt uzinjwj, d fzs vzj xn rj
jstot, rj yjslt ij nw f jxf htwyj, d jhmfw zs hthmj, htrt ytifx; vzj qf vzj
ynjsj rfwnit ltgjwsfitw rzd gnjs qj uzjij ywfjw d xzxyjsyfw.

-D ¡hórt, rfiwj! -inot Xfshmnhf-. Uqzlznjxj f Intx vzj kzjxj fsyjx mtd vzj
rfñfsf, fzsvzj inojxjs qtx vzj rj anjxjs nw xjsyfif hts rn xjñtwf rfiwj js
fvzjq hthmj: ''¡Rnwfi qf yfq utw hzfq, mnof ijq mfwyt ij fotx, d hórt af
xjsyfif d yjsinif js jq hthmj, htrt xn kzjwf zsf ufujxf!'' Ujwt unxjs jqqtx
qtx qtitx, d ásijrj dt js rn hthmj, qjafsyfitx qtx unjx ijq xzjqt. ¡Rfq
fñt d rfq rjx ufwf hzfsytx rzwrzwfitwjx mfd js jq rzsit, d ásijrj dt
hfqnjsyj, d wífxj qf ljsyj! ¿Inlt gnjs, rfiwj ríf?

-D ¡hórt vzj inhjx gnjs, mnof! -wjxutsinó Yjwjxf-. D ytifx jxyfx ajsyzwfx,
d fzs rfdtwjx, rj qfx ynjsj uwtkjynefifx rn gzjs Xfshmt, d ajwáx yú, mnof,
hórt st ufwf mfxyf mfhjwrj htsijxf: vzj ytit jx htrjsefw f xjw ajsyzwtxfx;
d, htrt dt mj tíit ijhnw rzhmfx ajhjx f yz gzjs ufiwj, vzj fxí htrt qt jx
yzdt qt jx ij qtx wjkwfsjx, hzfsit yj injwjs qf afvznqqf, htwwj hts
xtlznqqf: hzfsit yj injwjs zs ltgnjwst, hóljqj; hzfsit yj injwjs zs
htsifit, fláwwfqj, d hzfsit yj mnhnjwjs yzx, yzx, hts fqlzsf gzjsf iáinaf,
jsaáxfqf. ¡St, xnst itwrítx, d st wjxutsiánx f qfx ajsyzwfx d gzjsfx inhmfx
vzj jxyás qqfrfsit f qf uzjwyf ij azjxywf hfxf!

-D ¿vzé xj rj if f rí -fñfinó Xfshmnhf- vzj inlf jq vzj vznxnjwj hzfsit rj
ajf jsytsfif d kfsyfxntxf: "Antxj jq ujwwt js gwflfx ij hjwwt...", d qt
ijráx?

Tdjsit qt hzfq jq hzwf, inot:

-Dt st uzjit hwjjw xnst vzj ytitx qtx ijxyj qnsfoj ij qtx Ufsefx sfhnjwts
hfif zst hts zs htxyfq ij wjkwfsjx js jq hzjwut: snslzst ijqqtx mj anxyt
vzj st qtx ijwwfrj f ytifx mtwfx d js ytifx qfx uqáynhfx vzj ynjsjs.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot jq ufoj-, vzj jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw Xfshmt f hfif
ufxt qtx inhj, d, fzsvzj rzhmtx st anjsjs f uwtuóxnyt, ytifaíf ifs lzxyt, d
rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf d jq izvzj qtx hjqjgwfs rzhmt.

-¿Vzj ytifaíf xj fknwrf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít -inot jq gfhmnqqjw-, xjw
ajwifi jxyt ijq ltgnjwst ij Xfshmt, d ij vzj mfd izvzjxf js jq rzsit vzj qj
jsaíj uwjxjsyjx d qj jxhwngf? Utwvzj stxtywtx, fzsvzj ythfrtx qtx uwjxjsyjx
d mjrtx qjíit qfx hfwyfx, st qt hwjjrtx, d ujsxfrtx vzj éxyf jx zsf ij qfx
htxfx ij its Vznotyj, szjxywt htrufywntyt, vzj ytifx unjsxf vzj xts mjhmfx
utw jshfsyfrjsyt; d fxí, jxytd utw ijhnw vzj vznjwt ythfw d ufqufw f
azjxywf rjwhji, utw ajw xn jx jrgfofitw kfsyáxynht t mtrgwj ij hfwsj d
mzjxt.

-Xjñtwjx, dt st xé ráx ij rí -wjxutsinó jq ufoj- xnst vzj xtd jrgfofitw
ajwifijwt, d vzj jq xjñtw Xfshmt Ufsef jx ltgjwsfitw jkjhynat, d vzj rnx
xjñtwjx izvzj d izvzjxf uzjijs ifw, d mfs ifit, jq yfq ltgnjwst; d vzj mj
tíit ijhnw vzj js éq xj utwyf afqjsyíxnrfrjsyj jq yfq Xfshmt Ufsef; xn js
jxyt mfd jshfsyfrjsyt t st, azjxywfx rjwhjijx qt inxuzyjs fqqá jsywj jqqtx,
vzj dt st xé tywf htxf, ufwf jq ozwfrjsyt vzj mflt, vzj jx utw anif ij rnx
ufiwjx, vzj qtx yjslt anatx d qtx frt d qtx vznjwt rzhmt.

-Gnjs utiwá jqqt xjw fxí -wjuqnhó jq gfhmnqqjw-, ujwt izgnyfy Fzlzxynszx.

-Izij vznjs izifwj -wjxutsinó jq ufoj-, qf ajwifi jx qf vzj mj inhmt, d
jxyf vzj mf ij fsifw xnjruwj xtgwj qf rjsynwf,htrt jq fhjnyj xtgwj jq flzf;
d xn st, tujwngzx hwjinyj, jy sts ajwgnx: aéslfxj fqlzst ij azjxfx rjwhjijx
htsrnlt, d ajwás hts qtx totx qt vzj st hwjjs utw qtx tíitx.

-Jxf nif f rí ythf -inot Xfshmnhf-: qqéajrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw, f qfx
fshfx ij xz wthís, vzj dt nwé ij rzd gzjsf lfsf f ajw f rn xjñtw ufiwj.

-Qfx mnofx ij qtx ltgjwsfitwjx st mfs ij nw xtqfx utw qtx hfrnstx, xnst
fhtrufñfifx ij hfwwtefx d qnyjwfx d ij lwfs súrjwt ij xnwanjsyjx.

-Ufw Intx -wjxutsinó Xfshmf-, yfs gnés rj afdf dt xtgwj zsf utqqnsf htrt
xtgwj zs hthmj. ¡Mfqqfit qf mfgénx qf rjqnsiwtxf!

-Hfqqf, rthmfhmf -inot Yjwjxf-, vzj st xfgjx qt vzj yj inhjx, d jxyj xjñtw
jxyá js qt hnjwyt: vzj yfq jq ynjrut, yfq jq ynjsyt; hzfsit Xfshmt, Xfshmf,
d hzfsit ltgjwsfitw, xjñtwf, d st xé xn inlf fqlt.

-Ráx inhj qf xjñtwf Yjwjxf ij qt vzj unjsxf -inot jq ufoj-; d ijsrj ij
htrjw d ijxuáhmjsrj qzjlt, utwvzj unjsxt atqajwrj jxyf yfwij.

F qt vzj inot jq hzwf:

-Azjxywf rjwhji xj ajsiwá f mfhjw ujsnyjshnf htsrnlt, vzj qf xjñtwf Yjwjxf
ráx ynjsj atqzsyfi vzj fqmfofx ufwf xjwanw f yfs gzjs mzéxuji.

Wjmzxóqt jq ufoj; ujwt, js jkjhyt, qt mzgt ij htshjijw utw xz rjotwf, d jq
hzwf qj qqjaó htsxnlt ij gzjsf lfsf, utw yjsjw qzlfw ij uwjlzsyfwqj ij
jxufhnt utw its Vznotyj d xzx mfefñfx.

Jq gfhmnqqjw xj tkwjhnó ij jxhwngnw qfx hfwyfx f Yjwjxf ij qf wjxuzjxyf,
ujwt jqqf st vznxt vzj jq gfhmnqqjw xj rjynjxj js xzx htxfx, vzj qj yjsíf
utw fqlt gzwqós; d fxí, int zs gtqqt d itx mzjatx f zs rtsfhnqqt vzj xfgíf
jxhwngnw, jq hzfq qj jxhwngnó itx hfwyfx, zsf ufwf xz rfwnit d tywf ufwf qf
izvzjxf, styfifx ij xz rnxrt hfqjywj, vzj st xts qfx ujtwjx vzj js jxyf
lwfsij mnxytwnf xj utsjs, htrt xj ajwá fijqfsyj.





Hfuíyzqt QN. Ijq uwtlwjxt ijq ltgnjwst ij Xfshmt Ufsef, hts tywtx xzhjxtx
yfqjx htrt gzjstx


Frfsjhnó jq iíf vzj xj xnlznó f qf sthmj ij qf wtsif ijq ltgjwsfitw, qf
hzfq jq rfjxywjxfqf ufxó xns itwrnw, thzufit jq ujsxfrnjsyt js jq wtxywt,
gwít d gjqqjef ij qf inxkwfefif itshjqqf; d jq rfdtwitrt thzuó qt vzj ijqqf
kfqyfgf js jxhwngnw f xzx xjñtwjx qt vzj Xfshmt Ufsef mfhíf d ijhíf, yfs
firnwfit ij xzx mjhmtx htrt ij xzx inhmtx: utwvzj fsifgfs rjehqfifx xzx
ufqfgwfx d xzx fhhntsjx, hts fxtrtx inxhwjytx d ytsytx.

Qjafsyóxj, js kns, jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, d, utw twijs ijq ithytw Ujiwt
Wjhnt, qj mnhnjwts ijxfdzsfw hts zs utht ij htsxjwaf d hzfywt ywfltx ij
flzf kwíf, htxf vzj qf ywthfwf Xfshmt hts zs ujifet ij ufs d zs wfhnrt ij
zafx; ujwt, anjsit vzj fvzjqqt jwf ráx kzjwef vzj atqzsyfi, ufxó utw jqqt,
hts mfwyt itqtw ij xz fqrf d kfynlf ij xz jxyórflt, mfhnésitqj hwjjw Ujiwt
Wjhnt vzj qtx rfsofwjx uthtx d ijqnhfitx fanafgfs jq nsljsnt, vzj jwf qt
vzj ráx htsajsíf f qfx ujwxtsfx htsxynyznifx js rfsitx d js tknhntx lwfajx,
itsij xj mfs ij fuwtajhmfw st yfsyt ij qfx kzjwefx htwutwfqjx htrt ij qfx
ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt.

Hts jxyf xtknxyjwíf ufijhíf mfrgwj Xfshmt, d yfq, vzj js xz xjhwjyt
rfqijhíf jq ltgnjwst d fzs f vznjs xj qj mfgíf ifit; ujwt, hts xz mfrgwj d
hts xz htsxjwaf, xj uzxt f ozelfw fvzjq iíf, d qt uwnrjwt vzj xj qj tkwjhnó
kzj zsf uwjlzsyf vzj zs ktwfxyjwt qj mnet, jxyfsit uwjxjsyjx f ytit jq
rfdtwitrt d qtx ijráx fhóqnytx, vzj kzj:

-Xjñtw, zs hfzifqtxt wít inaniíf itx yéwrnstx ij zs rnxrt xjñtwít (d jxyé
azjxywf rjwhji fyjsyt, utwvzj jq hfxt jx ij nrutwyfshnf d fqlt
inknhzqytxt). Inlt, uzjx, vzj xtgwj jxyj wít jxyfgf zsf uzjsyj, d fq hfgt
ijqqf, zsf mtwhf d zsf htrt hfxf ij fzinjshnf, js qf hzfq ij twinsfwnt
mfgíf hzfywt ozjhjx vzj ozelfgfs qf qjd vzj uzxt jq izjñt ijq wít, ij qf
uzjsyj d ijq xjñtwít, vzj jwf js jxyf ktwrf: "Xn fqlzst ufxfwj utw jxyf
uzjsyj ij zsf ufwyj f tywf, mf ij ozwfw uwnrjwt fiósij d f vzé af; d xn
ozwfwj ajwifi, iéojsqj ufxfw; d xn inojwj rjsynwf, rzjwf utw jqqt fmtwhfit
js qf mtwhf vzj fqqí xj rzjxywf, xns wjrnxnós fqlzsf". Xfgnif jxyf qjd d qf
wnlzwtxf htsinhnós ijqqf, ufxfgfs rzhmtx, d qzjlt js qt vzj ozwfgfs xj
jhmfgf ij ajw vzj ijhífs ajwifi, d qtx ozjhjx qtx ijofgfs ufxfw
qngwjrjsyj. Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, ytrfsit ozwfrjsyt f zs mtrgwj, ozwó d inot
vzj ufwf jq ozwfrjsyt vzj mfhíf, vzj ngf f rtwnw js fvzjqqf mtwhf vzj fqqí
jxyfgf, d st f tywf htxf. Wjufwfwts qtx ozjhjx js jq ozwfrjsyt d inojwts:
''Xn f jxyj mtrgwj qj ijofrtx ufxfw qngwjrjsyj, rnsynó js xz ozwfrjsyt, d,
htsktwrj f qf qjd, ijgj rtwnw; d xn qj fmtwhfrtx, éq ozwó vzj ngf f rtwnw
js fvzjqqf mtwhf, d, mfgnjsit ozwfit ajwifi, utw qf rnxrf qjd ijgj xjw
qngwj''. Uíijxj f azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, vzé mfwás qtx ozjhjx ijq
yfq mtrgwj; vzj fzs mfxyf fltwf jxyás izitxtx d xzxujsxtx. D, mfgnjsit
yjsnit stynhnf ijq flzit d jqjafit jsyjsinrnjsyt ij azjxywf rjwhji, rj
jsanfwts f rí f vzj xzuqnhfxj f azjxywf rjwhji ij xz ufwyj injxj xz ufwjhjw
js yfs nsywnhfit d izitxt hfxt.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Utw hnjwyt vzj jxtx xjñtwjx ozjhjx vzj f rí tx jsaífs qt uzinjwfs mfgjw
jxhzxfit, utwvzj dt xtd zs mtrgwj vzj yjslt ráx ij rtxywjsht vzj ij flzit;
ujwt, hts ytit jxt, wjujynirj tywf aje jq sjlthnt ij rtit vzj dt qj
jsynjsif: vzneá utiwíf xjw vzj injxj js jq mnyt.

Atqanó tywf d tywf aje jq uwjlzsyfsyj f wjkjwnw qt vzj uwnrjwt mfgíf inhmt,
d Xfshmt inot:

-F rn ufwjhjw, jxyj sjlthnt js itx ufqjyfx qj ijhqfwfwé dt, d jx fxí: jq
yfq mtrgwj ozwf vzj af f rtwnw js qf mtwhf, d xn rzjwj js jqqf, ozwó
ajwifi, d utw qf qjd uzjxyf rjwjhj xjw qngwj d vzj ufxj qf uzjsyj; d xn st
qj fmtwhfs, ozwó rjsynwf, d utw qf rnxrf qjd rjwjhj vzj qj fmtwvzjs.

-Fxí jx htrt jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw inhj -inot jq rjsxfojwt-; d hzfsyt f qf
jsyjwjef d jsyjsinrnjsyt ijq hfxt, st mfd ráx vzj ujinw sn vzj izifw.

-Inlt dt, uzjx, fltwf -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- vzj ijxyj mtrgwj fvzjqqf ufwyj vzj
ozwó ajwifi qf ijojs ufxfw, d qf vzj inot rjsynwf qf fmtwvzjs, d ijxyf
rfsjwf xj hzruqnwá fq unj ij qf qjywf qf htsinhnós ijq ufxfoj.

-Uzjx, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -wjuqnhó jq uwjlzsyfitw-, xjwá sjhjxfwnt vzj jq yfq
mtrgwj xj inanif js ufwyjx, js rjsynwtxf d ajwifijwf; d xn xj inanij, utw
kzjwef mf ij rtwnw, d fxí st xj htsxnlzj htxf fqlzsf ij qt vzj qf qjd unij,
d jx ij sjhjxnifi jxuwjxf vzj xj hzruqf hts jqqf.

-Ajsni fhá, xjñtw gzjs mtrgwj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; jxyj ufxfojwt vzj ijhíx,
t dt xtd zs utwwt, t éq ynjsj qf rnxrf wfeós ufwf rtwnw vzj ufwf ananw d
ufxfw qf uzjsyj; utwvzj xn qf ajwifi qj xfqaf, qf rjsynwf qj htsijsf
nlzfqrjsyj; d, xnjsit jxyt fxí, htrt qt jx, xtd ij ufwjhjw vzj inlánx f
jxtx xjñtwjx vzj f rí tx jsanfwts vzj, uzjx jxyás js zs knq qfx wfetsjx ij
htsijsfwqj t fxtqajwqj, vzj qj ijojs ufxfw qngwjrjsyj, uzjx xnjruwj jx
fqfgfit ráx jq mfhjw gnjs vzj rfq, d jxyt qt injwf knwrfit ij rn strgwj, xn
xzunjwf knwrfw; d dt js jxyj hfxt st mj mfgqfit ij rít, xnst vzj xj rj anst
f qf rjrtwnf zs uwjhjuyt, jsywj tywtx rzhmtx vzj rj int rn frt its Vznotyj
qf sthmj fsyjx vzj ansnjxj f xjw ltgjwsfitw ijxyf ísxzqf: vzj kzj vzj,
hzfsit qf ozxynhnf jxyzanjxj js izif, rj ijhfsyfxj d fhtlnjxj f qf
rnxjwnhtwinf; d mf vzjwnit Intx vzj fltwf xj rj fhtwifxj, utw ajsnw js jxyj
hfxt htrt ij rtqij.

Fxí jx -wjxutsinó jq rfdtwitrt-, d yjslt ufwf rí vzj jq rnxrt Qnhzwlt, vzj
int qjdjx f qtx qfhjijrtsntx, st uzinjwf ifw rjotw xjsyjshnf vzj qf vzj jq
lwfs Ufsef mf ifit. D fhágjxj hts jxyt qf fzinjshnf ijxyf rfñfsf, d dt ifwé
twijs htrt jq xjñtw ltgjwsfitw htrf rzd f xz lzxyt.

-Jxt unit, d gfwwfx ijwjhmfx -inot Xfshmt-: ijsrj ij htrjw, d qqzjafs hfxtx
d izifx xtgwj rí, vzj dt qfx ijxufgnqfwé js jq fnwj.

Hzruqnó xz ufqfgwf jq rfdtwitrt, ufwjhnésitqj xjw hfwlt ij htshnjshnf rfyfw
ij mfrgwj f yfs inxhwjyt ltgjwsfitw; d ráx, vzj ujsxfgf htshqznw hts éq
fvzjqqf rnxrf sthmj mfhnésitqj qf gzwqf úqynrf vzj ywfíf js htrnxnós ij
mfhjwqj.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, mfgnjsit htrnit fvzjq iíf htsywf qfx wjlqfx d fktwnxrtx
ijq ithytw Ynwyjfkzjwf, fq qjafsyfw ij qtx rfsyjqjx, jsywó zs htwwjt hts
zsf hfwyf ij its Vznotyj ufwf jq ltgjwsfitw. Rfsió Xfshmt fq xjhwjyfwnt vzj
qf qjdjxj ufwf xí, d vzj xn st ansnjxj js jqqf fqlzsf htxf inlsf ij
xjhwjyt, qf qjdjxj js ate fqyf. Míetqt fxí jq xjhwjyfwnt, d, wjufxásitqf
uwnrjwt, inot:

-Gnjs xj uzjij qjjw js ate fqyf, vzj qt vzj jq xjñtw its Vznotyj jxhwngj f
azjxywf rjwhji rjwjhj jxyfw jxyfrufit d jxhwnyt hts qjywfx ij twt, d inhj
fxí:

Hfwyf ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf f Xfshmt Ufsef, ltgjwsfitw ij qf ísxzqf
Gfwfyfwnf

Hzfsit jxujwfgf tíw szjafx ij yzx ijxhznitx j nrujwynsjshnfx, Xfshmt frnlt,
qfx tí ij yzx inxhwjhntsjx, ij vzj in utw jqqt lwfhnfx ufwynhzqfwjx fq
hnjqt, jq hzfq ijq jxynéwhtq xfgj qjafsyfw qtx utgwjx, d ij qtx ytsytx
mfhjw inxhwjytx. Iíhjsrj vzj ltgnjwsfx htrt xn kzjxjx mtrgwj, d vzj jwjx
mtrgwj htrt xn kzjxjx gjxynf, xjlús jx qf mzrnqifi hts vzj yj ywfyfx; d
vznjwt vzj fianjwyfx, Xfshmt, vzj rzhmfx ajhjx htsanjsj d jx sjhjxfwnt, utw
qf fzytwnifi ijq tknhnt, nw htsywf qf mzrnqifi ijq htwfeós; utwvzj jq gzjs
fitwst ij qf ujwxtsf vzj jxyá uzjxyf js lwfajx hfwltx mf ij xjw htsktwrj f
qt vzj jqqtx unijs, d st f qf rjinif ij qt vzj xz mzrnqij htsinhnós qj
nshqnsf. Aíxyjyj gnjs, vzj zs ufqt htruzjxyt st ufwjhj ufqt. St inlt vzj
ywfnlfx inojx sn lfqfx, sn vzj xnjsit ozje yj anxyfx htrt xtqifit, xnst vzj
yj fitwsjx hts jq mágnyt vzj yz tknhnt wjvznjwj, hts yfq vzj xjf qnrunt d
gnjs htruzjxyt.

Ufwf lfsfw qf atqzsyfi ijq uzjgqt vzj ltgnjwsfx, jsywj tywfx mfx ij mfhjw
itx htxfx: qf zsf, xjw gnjs hwnfit hts ytitx, fzsvzj jxyt df tywf aje yj qt
mj inhmt; d qf tywf, uwthzwfw qf fgzsifshnf ij qtx rfsyjsnrnjsytx; vzj st
mfd htxf vzj ráx kfynlzj jq htwfeós ij qtx utgwjx vzj qf mfrgwj d qf
hfwjxyíf.

St mflfx rzhmfx uwflráynhfx; d xn qfx mnhnjwjx, uwthzwf vzj xjfs gzjsfx, d,
xtgwj ytit, vzj xj lzfwijs d hzruqfs; vzj qfx uwflráynhfx vzj st xj
lzfwifs, qt rnxrt jx vzj xn st qt kzjxjs; fsyjx ifs f jsyjsijw vzj jq
uwíshnuj vzj yzat inxhwjhnós d fzytwnifi ufwf mfhjwqfx, st yzat afqtw ufwf
mfhjw vzj xj lzfwifxjs; d qfx qjdjx vzj fyjrtwnefs d st xj jojhzyfs, anjsjs
f xjw htrt qf anlf, wjd ij qfx wfsfx: vzj fq uwnshnunt qfx jxufsyó, d hts
jq ynjrut qf rjstxuwjhnfwts d xj xzgnjwts xtgwj jqqf.

Xé ufiwj ij qfx anwyzijx d ufiwfxywt ij qtx anhntx. St xjfx xnjruwj
wnlzwtxt, sn xnjruwj gqfsit, d jxhtlj jq rjint jsywj jxytx itx jxywjrtx,
vzj js jxyt jxyá jq uzsyt ij qf inxhwjhnós. Anxnyf qfx háwhjqjx, qfx
hfwsnhjwífx d qfx uqfefx, vzj qf uwjxjshnf ijq ltgjwsfitw js qzlfwjx yfqjx
jx ij rzhmf nrutwyfshnf: htsxzjqf f qtx uwjxtx, vzj jxujwfs qf gwjajifi ij
xz ijxufhmt; jx htht f qtx hfwsnhjwtx, vzj utw jsytshjx nlzfqfs qtx ujxtx,
d jx jxufsyfot f qfx uqfhjwfx, utw qf rnxrf wfeós. St yj rzjxywjx, fzsvzj
utw ajsyzwf qt xjfx -qt hzfq dt st hwjt-, htinhntxt, rzojwnjlt sn lqtyós;
utwvzj, js xfgnjsit jq uzjgqt d qtx vzj yj ywfyfs yz nshqnsfhnós
ijyjwrnsfif, utw fqqí yj ifwás gfyjwíf, mfxyf ijwwngfwyj js jq uwtkzsit ij
qf ujwinhnós.

Rnwf d wjrnwf, ufxf d wjufxf qtx htsxjotx d ithzrjsytx vzj yj in utw
jxhwnyt fsyjx vzj ij fvzí ufwynjxjx f yz ltgnjwst, d ajwáx htrt mfqqfx js
jqqtx, xn qtx lzfwifx, zsf fdzif ij htxyf vzj yj xtgwjqqjaj qtx ywfgfotx d
inknhzqyfijx vzj f hfif ufxt f qtx ltgjwsfitwjx xj qjx tkwjhjs. Jxhwngj f
yzx xjñtwjx d rzéxywfyjqjx flwfijhnit, vzj qf nslwfynyzi jx mnof ij qf
xtgjwgnf, d zst ij qtx rfdtwjx ujhfitx vzj xj xfgj, d qf ujwxtsf vzj jx
flwfijhnif f qtx vzj gnjs qj mfs mjhmt, if nsinhnt vzj yfrgnés qt xjwá f
Intx, vzj yfsytx gnjsjx qj mnet d ij htsynst qj mfhj.

Qf xjñtwf izvzjxf ijxufhmó zs uwtunt hts yz ajxynit d tywt uwjxjsyj f yz
rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef; utw rtrjsytx jxujwfrtx wjxuzjxyf.

Dt mj jxyfit zs utht rfq inxuzjxyt ij zs hnjwyt lfyjfrnjsyt vzj rj xzhjinó
st rzd f hzjsyt ij rnx sfwnhjx; ujwt st kzj sfif, vzj xn mfd jshfsyfitwjx
vzj rj rfqywfyjs, yfrgnés qtx mfd vzj rj ijknjsifs.

Faíxfrj xn jq rfdtwitrt vzj jxyá htsynlt yzat vzj ajw js qfx fhhntsjx ij qf
Ywnkfqin, htrt yú xtxujhmfxyj, d ij ytit qt vzj yj xzhjinjwj rj nwáx ifsit
fanxt, uzjx jx yfs htwyt jq hfrnst; hzfsyt ráx, vzj dt unjsxt ijofw uwjxyt
jxyf anif thntxf js vzj jxytd, uzjx st sfhí ufwf jqqf.

Zs sjlthnt xj rj mf tkwjhnit, vzj hwjt vzj rj mf ij utsjw js ijxlwfhnf
ijxytx xjñtwjx; ujwt, fzsvzj xj rj if rzhmt, st xj rj if sfif, uzjx, js kns
js kns, yjslt ij hzruqnw fsyjx hts rn uwtkjxnós vzj hts xz lzxyt, htsktwrj
f qt vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj: frnhzx Uqfyt, xji rflnx frnhf ajwnyfx. Iíltyj jxyj
qfyís utwvzj rj itd f jsyjsijw vzj, ijxuzéx vzj jwjx ltgjwsfitw, qt mfgwáx
fuwjsinit. D f Intx, jq hzfq yj lzfwij ij vzj snslzst yj yjslf qáxynrf.

Yz frnlt,

Its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf.

Tdó Xfshmt qf hfwyf hts rzhmf fyjshnós, d kzj hjqjgwfif d yjsnif utw
inxhwjyf ij qtx vzj qf tdjwts; d qzjlt Xfshmt xj qjafsyó ij qf rjxf, d,
qqfrfsit fq xjhwjyfwnt, xj jshjwwó hts éq js xz jxyfshnf, d, xns inqfyfwqt
ráx, vznxt wjxutsijw qzjlt f xz xjñtw its Vznotyj, d inot fq xjhwjyfwnt
vzj, xns fñfinw sn vznyfw htxf fqlzsf, kzjxj jxhwngnjsit qt vzj éq qj
inojxj, d fxí qt mnet; d qf hfwyf ij qf wjxuzjxyf kzj ijq yjstw xnlznjsyj:

Hfwyf ij Xfshmt Ufsef f its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf

Qf thzufhnós ij rnx sjlthntx jx yfs lwfsij vzj st yjslt qzlfw ufwf wfxhfwrj
qf hfgjef, sn fzs ufwf htwyfwrj qfx zñfx; d fxí, qfx ywfnlt yfs hwjhnifx
hzfq Intx qt wjrjinj. Inlt jxyt, xjñtw rít ij rn fqrf, utwvzj azjxf rjwhji
st xj jxufsyj xn mfxyf fltwf st mj ifit fanxt ij rn gnjs t rfq jxyfw js
jxyj ltgnjwst, js jq hzfq yjslt ráx mfrgwj vzj hzfsit fsiágfrtx qtx itx utw
qfx xjqafx d utw qtx ijxutgqfitx.

Jxhwngnórj jq izvzj, rn xjñtw, jq tywt iíf, iásitrj fanxt vzj mfgífs
jsywfit js jxyf ísxzqf hnjwyfx jxuífx ufwf rfyfwrj, d mfxyf fltwf dt st mj
ijxhzgnjwyt tywf vzj zs hnjwyt ithytw vzj jxyá js jxyj qzlfw fxfqfwnfit
ufwf rfyfw f hzfsytx ltgjwsfitwjx fvzí ansnjwjs: qqárfxj jq ithytw Ujiwt
Wjhnt, d jx sfyzwfq ij Ynwyjfkzjwf: ¡utwvzj ajf azjxf rjwhji vzé strgwj
ufwf st yjrjw vzj mj ij rtwnw f xzx rfstx! Jxyj yfq ithytw inhj éq rnxrt ij
xí rnxrt vzj éq st hzwf qfx jskjwrjifijx hzfsit qfx mfd, xnst vzj qfx
uwjanjsj, ufwf vzj st ajslfs; d qfx rjijhnsfx vzj zxf xts injyf d ráx
injyf, mfxyf utsjw qf ujwxtsf js qtx mzjxtx rtsitx, htrt xn st kzjxj rfdtw
rfq qf kqfvzjef vzj qf hfqjsyzwf. Knsfqrjsyj, éq rj af rfyfsit ij mfrgwj, d
dt rj atd rzwnjsit ij ijxujhmt, uzjx hzfsit ujsxé ajsnw f jxyj ltgnjwst f
htrjw hfqnjsyj d f gjgjw kwít, d f wjhwjfw jq hzjwut jsywj xágfsfx ij
mtqfsif, xtgwj htqhmtsjx ij uqzrf, mj ajsnit f mfhjw ujsnyjshnf, htrt xn
kzjwf jwrnyfñt; d, htrt st qf mflt ij rn atqzsyfi, unjsxt vzj, fq hfgt fq
hfgt, rj mf ij qqjafw jq infgqt.

Mfxyf fltwf st mj ythfit ijwjhmt sn qqjafit htmjhmt, d st uzjit ujsxfw js
vzé af jxyt; utwvzj fvzí rj mfs inhmt vzj qtx ltgjwsfitwjx vzj f jxyf
ísxzqf xzjqjs ajsnw, fsyjx ij jsywfw js jqqf, t qjx mfs ifit t qjx mfs
uwjxyfit qtx ijq uzjgqt rzhmtx insjwtx, d vzj éxyf jx twinsfwnf zxfsef js
qtx ijráx vzj afs f ltgnjwstx, st xtqfrjsyj js éxyj.

Fsthmj, fsifsit ij wtsif, ytué zsf rzd mjwrtxf itshjqqf js ywfoj ij afwós d
zs mjwrfst xzdt js mágnyt ij rzojw; ij qf rtef xj jsfrtwó rn rfjxywjxfqf, d
qf jxhtlnó js xz nrflnsfhnós ufwf xz rzojw, xjlús éq mf inhmt, d dt jxhtlí
fq rtet ufwf rn djwst; mtd qtx itx utsiwjrtx js uqáynhf szjxywtx
ujsxfrnjsytx hts jq ufiwj ij jsywfrgtx, vzj jx zs yfq Injlt ij qf Qqfsf,
mnifqlt d hwnxynfst anjot hzfsyt xj vznjwj.

Dt anxnyt qfx uqfefx, htrt azjxywf rjwhji rj qt fhtsxjof, d fdjw mfqqé zsf
yjsijwf vzj ajsiíf fajqqfsfx szjafx, d fajwnlüéqj vzj mfgíf rjehqfit hts
zsf mfsjlf ij fajqqfsfx szjafx tywf ij anjofx, afsfx d utiwnifx; fuqnvzéqfx
ytifx ufwf qtx snñtx ij qf ithywnsf, vzj qfx xfgwífs gnjs inxynslznw, d
xjsyjshnéqf vzj utw vznshj iífx st jsywfxj js qf uqfef. Mfsrj inhmt vzj qt
mnhj afqjwtxfrjsyj; qt vzj xé ijhnw f azjxywf rjwhji jx vzj jx kfrf js jxyj
uzjgqt vzj st mfd ljsyj ráx rfqf vzj qfx uqfhjwfx, utwvzj ytifx xts
ijxajwltsefifx, ijxfqrfifx d fywjanifx, d dt fxí qt hwjt, utw qfx vzj mj
anxyt js tywtx uzjgqtx.

Ij vzj rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf mfdf jxhwnyt f rn rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef d
jsanáitqj jq uwjxjsyj vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj, jxytd rzd xfynxkjhmt, d
uwthzwfwé ij rtxywfwrj flwfijhnit f xz ynjrut: géxjqj azjxywf rjwhji qfx
rfstx ij rn ufwyj, inhnjsit vzj inlt dt vzj st qt mf jhmfit js xfht wtyt,
htrt qt ajwá utw qf tgwf.

St vzjwwíf vzj azjxywf rjwhji yzanjxj ywfgfhzjsyfx ij inxlzxyt hts jxtx rnx
xjñtwjx, utwvzj xn azjxywf rjwhji xj jstof hts jqqtx, hqfwt jxyá vzj mf ij
wjizsifw js rn ifñt, d st xjwá gnjs vzj, uzjx xj rj if f rí utw htsxjot vzj
xjf flwfijhnit, vzj azjxywf rjwhji st qt xjf hts vznjs yfsyfx rjwhjijx qj
ynjsj mjhmfx d hts yfsyt wjlfqt mf xnit ywfyfit js xz hfxynqqt.

Fvzjqqt ijq lfyjfit st jsynjsit, ujwt nrflnst vzj ijgj ij xjw fqlzsf ij qfx
rfqfx kjhmtwífx vzj hts azjxywf rjwhji xzjqjs zxfw qtx rfqtx jshfsyfitwjx;
dt qt xfgwé hzfsit stx ajfrtx.

Vznxnjwf jsanfwqj f azjxywf rjwhji fqlzsf htxf, ujwt st xé vzé jsaíj, xn st
jx fqlzstx hfñzytx ij ojwnslfx, vzj ufwf hts ajonlfx qtx mfhjs js jxyf
ísxzqf rzd hzwntxtx; fzsvzj xn rj izwf jq tknhnt, dt gzxhfwé vzé jsanfw ij
mfqifx t ij rfslfx.

Xn rj jxhwngnjwj rn rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef, uflzj azjxywf rjwhji jq utwyj d
jsaíjrj qf hfwyf,vzj yjslt lwfsiíxnrt ijxjt ij xfgjw ijq jxyfit ij rn hfxf,
ij rn rzojw d ij rnx mnotx. D hts jxyt, Intx qngwj f azjxywf rjwhji ij rfq
nsyjshntsfitx jshfsyfitwjx, d f rí rj xfvzj hts gnjs d js ufe ijxyj
ltgnjwst, vzj qt izit, utwvzj qj unjsxt ijofw hts qf anif, xjlús rj ywfyf
jq ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt.

Hwnfit ij azjxywf rjwhji,

Xfshmt Ufsef, jq Ltgjwsfitw.

Hjwwó qf hfwyf jq xjhwjyfwnt d ijxufhmó qzjlt fq htwwjt; d, ozsyásitxj qtx
gzwqfitwjx ij Xfshmt, injwts twijs jsywj xí hórt ijxufhmfwqj ijq ltgnjwst;
d fvzjqqf yfwij qf ufxó Xfshmt js mfhjw fqlzsfx twijsfsefx ythfsyjx fq gzjs
ltgnjwst ij qf vzj éq nrflnsfgf xjw ísxzqf, d twijsó vzj st mzgnjxj
wjlfytsjx ij qtx gfxynrjsytx js qf wjuúgqnhf, d vzj uzinjxjs rjyjw js jqqf
anst ij qfx ufwyjx vzj vznxnjxjs, hts finyfrjsyt vzj ijhqfwfxjs jq qzlfw ij
itsij jwf, ufwf utsjwqj jq uwjhnt xjlús xz jxynrfhnós, gtsifi d kfrf, d jq
vzj qt flzfxj t qj rzifxj jq strgwj, ujwinjxj qf anif utw jqqt.

Rtijwó jq uwjhnt ij ytit hfqefit, uwnshnufqrjsyj jq ij qtx efufytx, utw
ufwjhjwqj vzj htwwíf hts jctwgnyfshnf; uzxt yfxf js qtx xfqfwntx ij qtx
hwnfitx, vzj hfrnsfgfs f wnjsif xzjqyf utw jq hfrnst ijq nsyjwjxj; uzxt
lwfaíxnrfx ujsfx f qtx vzj hfsyfxjs hfsyfwjx qfxhnatx d ijxhtruzjxytx, sn
ij sthmj sn ij iíf. Twijsó vzj snslús hnjlt hfsyfxj rnqflwt js htuqfx xn st
ywzojxj yjxynrtsnt fzyésynht ij xjw ajwifijwt, utw ufwjhjwqj vzj qtx ráx
vzj qtx hnjltx hfsyfs xts knslnitx, js ujwoznhnt ij qtx ajwifijwtx.

Mnet d hwjó zs fqlzfhnq ij utgwjx, st ufwf vzj qtx ujwxnlznjxj, xnst ufwf
vzj qtx jcfrnsfxj xn qt jwfs, utwvzj f qf xtrgwf ij qf rfsvzjifi knslnif d
ij qf qqflf kfqxf fsifs qtx gwfetx qfiwtsjx d qf xfqzi gtwwfhmf. Js
wjxtqzhnós: éq twijsó htxfx yfs gzjsfx vzj mfxyf mtd xj lzfwifs js fvzjq
qzlfw, d xj strgwfs Qfx htsxynyzhntsjx ijq lwfs ltgjwsfitw Xfshmt Ufsef.





Hfuíyzqt QNN. Itsij xj hzjsyf qf fajsyzwf ij qf xjlzsif izjñf Itqtwnif, t
Fslzxynfif, qqfrfif utw tywt strgwj itñf Wtiwílzje


Hzjsyf Hnij Mfrjyj vzj jxyfsit df its Vznotyj xfst ij xzx fwzñtx, qj
ufwjhnó vzj qf anif vzj js fvzjq hfxynqqt yjsíf jwf htsywf ytif qf twijs ij
hfgfqqjwíf vzj uwtkjxfgf, d fxí, ijyjwrnsó ij ujinw qnhjshnf f qtx izvzjx
ufwf ufwynwxj f Efwfltef, hzdfx knjxyfx qqjlfgfs hjwhf, fitsij ujsxfgf
lfsfw jq fwséx vzj js qfx yfqjx knjxyfx xj htsvznxyf.

D, jxyfsit zs iíf f qf rjxf hts qtx izvzjx, d htrjsefsit f utsjw js tgwf xz
nsyjshnós d ujinw qf qnhjshnf, ajnx fvzí f ijxmtwf jsywfw utw qf uzjwyf ij
qf lwfs xfqf itx rzojwjx, htrt ijxuzéx ufwjhnó, hzgnjwyfx ij qzyt ij qtx
unjx f qf hfgjef, d qf zsf ijqqfx, qqjlásitxj f its Vznotyj, xj qj jhmó f
qtx unjx yjsinif ij qfwlt f qfwlt, qf gthf htxnif hts qtx unjx ij its
Vznotyj, d ifgf zstx ljrnitx yfs ywnxyjx, yfs uwtkzsitx d yfs itqtwtxtx,
vzj uzxt js htskzxnós f ytitx qtx vzj qf tífs d rnwfgfs; d, fzsvzj qtx
izvzjx ujsxfwts vzj xjwíf fqlzsf gzwqf vzj xzx hwnfitx vzjwífs mfhjw f its
Vznotyj, ytifaíf, anjsit hts jq fmísht vzj qf rzojw xzxunwfgf, ljríf d
qqtwfgf, qtx yzat izitxtx d xzxujsxtx, mfxyf vzj its Vznotyj, htrufxnat, qf
qjafsyó ijq xzjqt d mnet vzj xj ijxhzgwnjxj d vznyfxj jq rfsyt ij xtgwj qf
kfe qqtwtxf.

Jqqf qt mnet fxí, d rtxywó xjw qt vzj ofráx xj uzinjwf ujsxfw, utwvzj
ijxhzgwnó jq wtxywt ij itñf Wtiwílzje, qf izjñf ij hfxf, d qf tywf jsqzyfif
jwf xz mnof, qf gzwqfif ijq mnot ijq qfgwfitw wnht. Firnwáwtsxj ytitx
fvzjqqtx vzj qf htsthífs, d ráx qtx izvzjx vzj snslzst; vzj, uzjxyt vzj qf
yjsífs utw gtgf d ij gzjsf ufxyf, st utw yfsyt vzj ansnjxj f mfhjw qthzwfx.
Knsfqrjsyj, itñf Wtiwílzje, atqanésitxj f qtx xjñtwjx, qjx inot:

-Azjxfx jchjqjshnfx xjfs xjwanitx ij ifwrj qnhjshnf vzj dt ijufwyf zs utht
hts jxyj hfgfqqjwt, utwvzj fxí htsanjsj ufwf xfqnw hts gnjs ijq sjlthnt js
vzj rj mf uzjxyt jq fywjanrnjsyt ij zs rfq nsyjshntsfit anqqfst.

Jq izvzj inot vzj éq xj qf ifgf, d vzj ijufwynjxj hts jq xjñtw its Vznotyj
hzfsyt qj ansnjxj js ijxjt. Jqqf, jsijwjefsit qf ate d jq wtxywt f its
Vznotyj, inot:

-Iífx mf, afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, vzj tx yjslt ifif hzjsyf ij qf xnswfeós d
fqjatxíf vzj zs rfq qfgwfitw ynjsj kjhmf f rn rzd vzjwnif d frfif knof, vzj
jx jxyf ijxinhmfif vzj fvzí jxyá uwjxjsyj, d atx rj mfgjijx uwtrjynit ij
atqajw utw jqqf, jsijwjeásitqj jq yzjwyt vzj qj ynjsjs kjhmt, d fltwf mf
qqjlfit f rn stynhnf vzj tx vzjwjijx ufwynw ijxyj hfxynqqt, js gzxhf ij qfx
gzjsfx ajsyzwfx vzj Intx tx ijufwj; d fxí, vzjwwíf vzj, fsyjx vzj tx
jxhzwwnéxjijx utw jxtx hfrnstx, ijxfknáxjijx f jxyj wúxynht nsiórnyt, d qj
mnhnéxjijx vzj xj hfxfxj hts rn mnof, js hzruqnrnjsyt ij qf ufqfgwf vzj qj
int ij xjw xz jxutxt, fsyjx d uwnrjwt vzj dtlfxj hts jqqf; utwvzj ujsxfw
vzj jq izvzj rn xjñtw rj mf ij mfhjw ozxynhnf jx ujinw ujwfx fq tqrt, utw
qf thfxnós vzj df f azjxf rjwhji js uzwnifi yjslt ijhqfwfif. D hts jxyt,
Szjxywt Xjñtw ié f azjxf rjwhji rzhmf xfqzi, d f stxtywfx st stx ijxfrufwj.

F hzdfx wfetsjx wjxutsinó its Vznotyj, hts rzhmf lwfajifi d uwtxtutujdf:

-Gzjsf izjñf, yjruqfi azjxywfx qálwnrfx, t, utw rjotw ijhnw, jsozlfiqfx d
fmtwwfi ij azjxywtx xzxunwtx, vzj dt ytrt f rn hfwlt jq wjrjint ij azjxywf
mnof, f qf hzfq qj mzgnjwf jxyfit rjotw st mfgjw xnit yfs káhnq js hwjjw
uwtrjxfx ij jsfrtwfitx, qfx hzfqjx, utw qf rfdtw ufwyj, xts qnljwfx ij
uwtrjyjw d rzd ujxfifx ij hzruqnw; d fxí, hts qnhjshnf ijq izvzj rn xjñtw,
dt rj ufwynwé qzjlt js gzxhf ijxj ijxfqrfit rfshjgt, d qj mfqqfwé, d qj
ijxfknfwé, d qj rfyfwé hfif d hzfsit vzj xj jxhzxfwj ij hzruqnw qf
uwtrjynif ufqfgwf; vzj jq uwnshnufq fxzruyt ij rn uwtkjxnós jx ujwitsfw f
qtx mzrnqijx d hfxynlfw f qtx xtgjwgntx; vznjwt ijhnw: fhtwwjw f qtx
rnxjwfgqjx d ijxywznw f qtx wnlzwtxtx.

-St jx rjsjxyjw -wjxutsinó jq izvzj- vzj azjxf rjwhji xj utslf js ywfgfot
ij gzxhfw fq wúxynht ij vznjs jxyf gzjsf izjñf xj vzjof, sn jx rjsjxyjw
yfrutht vzj azjxf rjwhji rj unif f rí qnhjshnf ufwf ijxfknfwqj; vzj dt qj
itd utw ijxfknfit, d ytrt f rn hfwlt ij mfhjwqj xfgjw jxyj ijxfkít, d vzj
qj fhjyj, d ajslf f wjxutsijw utw xí f jxyj rn hfxynqqt, itsij f jsywfrgtx
ifwé hfrut xjlzwt, lzfwifsit ytifx qfx htsinhntsjx vzj js yfqjx fhytx
xzjqjs d ijgjs lzfwifwxj, lzfwifsit nlzfqrjsyj xz ozxynhnf f hfif zst, htrt
jxyás tgqnlfitx f lzfwifwqf ytitx fvzjqqtx uwíshnujx vzj ifs hfrut kwfsht f
qtx vzj xj htrgfyjs js qtx yéwrnstx ij xzx xjñtwítx.

-Uzjx hts jxj xjlzwt d hts gzjsf qnhjshnf ij azjxywf lwfsijef -wjuqnhó its
Vznotyj-, ijxij fvzí inlt vzj utw jxyf aje wjszshnt f rn mnifqlzíf, d rj
fqqfst d fozxyt hts qf qqfsjef ijq ifñfitw, d rj mflt nlzfq hts éq,
mfgnqnyásitqj ufwf utijw htrgfynw htsrnlt; d fxí, fzsvzj fzxjsyj, qj
ijxfkít d wjuyt, js wfeós ij vzj mnet rfq js ijkwfzifw f jxyf utgwj, vzj
kzj itshjqqf d df utw xz hzquf st qt jx, d vzj qj mf ij hzruqnw qf ufqfgwf
vzj qj int ij xjw xz qjlíynrt jxutxt, t rtwnw js qf ijrfsif.

D qzjlt, ijxhfqeásitxj zs lzfsyj, qj fwwtoó js rnyfi ij qf xfqf, d jq izvzj
qj fqeó, inhnjsit vzj, htrt df mfgíf inhmt, éq fhjyfgf jq yfq ijxfkít js
strgwj ij xz afxfqqt, d xjñfqfgf jq uqfet ij fqqí f xjnx iífx; d jq hfrut,
js qf uqfef ij fvzjq hfxynqqt; d qfx fwrfx, qfx fhtxyzrgwfifx ij qtx
hfgfqqjwtx: qfsef d jxhzit, d fwséx ywfsefit, hts ytifx qfx ijráx unjefx,
xns jslfñt, xzujwhmjwíf t xzujwxynhnós fqlzsf, jcfrnsfifx d anxyfx utw qtx
ozjhjx ijq hfrut.

-Ujwt, fsyj ytifx htxfx, jx rjsjxyjw vzj jxyf gzjsf izjñf d jxyf rfqf
itshjqqf utslfs jq ijwjhmt ij xz ozxynhnf js rfstx ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj;
vzj ij tywf rfsjwf st xj mfwá sfif, sn qqjlfwá f ijgnif jojhzhnós jq yfq
ijxfkít.

-Dt xí utslt -wjxutsinó qf izjñf.

-D dt yfrgnés -fñfinó qf mnof, ytif qqtwtxf d ytif ajwltsetxf d ij rfq
yfqfsyj.

Ytrfit, uzjx, jxyj fuzsyfrnjsyt, d mfgnjsit nrflnsfit jq izvzj qt vzj mfgíf
ij mfhjw js jq hfxt, qfx jsqzyfifx xj kzjwts, d twijsó qf izvzjxf vzj ij
fqqí fijqfsyj st qfx ywfyfxjs htrt f xzx hwnfifx, xnst htrt f xjñtwfx
fajsyzwjwfx vzj ajsífs f ujinw ozxynhnf f xz hfxf; d fxí, qjx injwts hzfwyt
fufwyj d qfx xnwanjwts htrt f ktwfxyjwfx, st xns jxufsyt ij qfx ijráx
hwnfifx, vzj st xfgífs js vzé mfgíf ij ufwfw qf xfsije d ijxjsatqyzwf ij
itñf Wtiwílzje d ij xz rfqfsifsyj mnof.

Jxyfsit js jxyt, ufwf fhfgfw ij wjlthnofw qf knjxyf d ifw gzjs kns f qf
htrnif, ajnx fvzí itsij jsywó utw qf xfqf jq ufoj vzj qqjaó qfx hfwyfx d
uwjxjsyjx f Yjwjxf Ufsef, rzojw ijq ltgjwsfitw Xfshmt Ufsef, ij hzdf
qqjlfif wjhngnjwts lwfs htsyjsyt qtx izvzjx, ijxjtxtx ij xfgjw qt vzj qj
mfgíf xzhjinit js xz anfoj; d, uwjlzsyásitxjqt, wjxutsinó jq ufoj vzj st qt
utiíf ijhnw yfs js uúgqnht sn hts gwjajx ufqfgwfx: vzj xzx jchjqjshnfx
kzjxjs xjwanitx ij ijofwqt ufwf f xtqfx, d vzj jsywjyfsyt xj jsywjyzanjxjs
hts fvzjqqfx hfwyfx. D, xfhfsit itx hfwyfx, qfx uzxt js rfstx ij qf
izvzjxf. Qf zsf ijhíf js jq xtgwjjxhwnyt: Hfwyf ufwf rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf
yfq, ij st xé iósij, d qf tywf: F rn rfwnit Xfshmt Ufsef, ltgjwsfitw ij qf
ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf, vzj Intx uwtxujwj ráx fñtx vzj f rí. St xj qj hthíf jq
ufs, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, f qf izvzjxf mfxyf qjjw xz hfwyf, d fgwnésitqf d
qjíit ufwf xí, d anjsit vzj qf utiíf qjjw js ate fqyf ufwf vzj jq izvzj d
qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx qf tdjxjs, qjdó ijxyf rfsjwf:

Hfwyf ij Yjwjxf Ufsef f qf Izvzjxf

Rzhmt htsyjsyt rj int, xjñtwf ríf, qf hfwyf vzj azjxf lwfsijef rj jxhwngnó,
vzj js ajwifi vzj qf yjsíf gnjs ijxjfif. Qf xfwyf ij htwfqjx jx rzd gzjsf,
d jq ajxynit ij hfef ij rn rfwnit st qj af js eflf. Ij vzj azjxywf xjñtwíf
mfdf mjhmt ltgjwsfitw f Xfshmt, rn htsxtwyj, mf wjhjgnit rzhmt lzxyt ytit
jxyj qzlfw, uzjxyt vzj st mfd vznjs qt hwjf, uwnshnufqrjsyj jq hzwf, d rfxj
Snhtqáx jq gfwgjwt, d Xfsxós Hfwwfxht jq gfhmnqqjw; ujwt f rí st xj rj if
sfif; vzj, htrt jqqt xjf fxí, htrt qt jx, inlf hfif zst qt vzj vznxnjwj;
fzsvzj, xn af f ijhnw ajwifi, f st ajsnw qtx htwfqjx d jq ajxynit, yfrutht
dt qt hwjdjwf, utwvzj js jxyj uzjgqt ytitx ynjsjs f rn rfwnit utw zs utwwt,
d vzj, xfhfit ij ltgjwsfw zs mfyt ij hfgwfx, st uzjijs nrflnsfw ufwf vzé
ltgnjwst uzjif xjw gzjst. Intx qt mflf, d qt jshfrnsj htrt ajj vzj qt mfs
rjsjxyjw xzx mnotx.

Dt, xjñtwf ij rn fqrf, jxytd ijyjwrnsfif, hts qnhjshnf ij azjxf rjwhji, ij
rjyjw jxyj gzjs iíf js rn hfxf, désitrj f qf htwyj f yjsijwrj js zs hthmj,
ufwf vzjgwfw qtx totx f rnq jsanintxtx vzj df yjslt; d fxí, xzuqnht f azjxf
jchjqjshnf rfsij f rn rfwnit rj jsaíj fqlús insjwnqqt, d vzj xjf fqlt vzé,
utwvzj js qf htwyj xts qtx lfxytx lwfsijx: vzj jq ufs afqj f wjfq, d qf
hfwsj, qf qngwf, f ywjnsyf rfwfajiíx, vzj jx zs oznhnt; d xn vznxnjwj vzj
st afdf, vzj rj qt fanxj hts ynjrut, utwvzj rj jxyás gzqqjsit qtx unjx utw
utsjwrj js hfrnst; vzj rj inhjs rnx frnlfx d rnx ajhnsfx vzj, xn dt d rn
mnof fsifrtx twtsifx d utrutxfx js qf htwyj, ajsiwá f xjw htsthnit rn
rfwnit utw rí ráx vzj dt utw éq, xnjsit ktwetxt vzj uwjlzsyjs rzhmtx:
''-¿Vznés xts jxyfx xjñtwfx ijxyj hthmj?'' D zs hwnfit rít wjxutsijw: ''-Qf
rzojw d qf mnof ij Xfshmt Ufsef, ltgjwsfitw ij qf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf''; d
ijxyf rfsjwf xjwá htsthnit Xfshmt, d dt xjwé jxynrfif, d f Wtrf utw ytit.

Uéxfrj, hzfsyt ujxfwrj uzjij, vzj jxyj fñt st xj mfs htlnit gjqqtyfx js
jxyj uzjgqt; hts ytit jxt, jsaít f azjxf fqyjef mfxyf rjint hjqjrís, vzj
zsf f zsf qfx kzn dt f htljw d f jxhtljw fq rtsyj, d st qfx mfqqé ráx
rfdtwjx; dt vznxnjwf vzj kzjwfs htrt mzjatx ij fajxywze.

St xj qj tqanij f azjxywf utrutxnifi ij jxhwngnwrj, vzj dt yjsiwé hznifit
ij qf wjxuzjxyf, fanxfsit ij rn xfqzi d ij ytit qt vzj mzgnjwj vzj fanxfw
ijxyj qzlfw, itsij vzjit wtlfsit f Szjxywt Xjñtw lzfwij f azjxywf lwfsijef,
d f rí st tqanij. Xfshmf, rn mnof, d rn mnot gjxfs f azjxywf rjwhji qfx
rfstx.

Qf vzj ynjsj ráx ijxjt ij ajw f azjxywf xjñtwíf vzj ij jxhwngnwqf, xz
hwnfif,

Yjwjxf Ufsef.

Lwfsij kzj jq lzxyt vzj ytitx wjhngnjwts ij tíw qf hfwyf ij Yjwjxf Ufsef,
uwnshnufqrjsyj qtx izvzjx, d qf izvzjxf uninó ufwjhjw f its Vznotyj xn
xjwíf gnjs fgwnw qf hfwyf vzj ajsíf ufwf jq ltgjwsfitw, vzj nrflnsfgf ijgíf
ij xjw gtsíxnrf. Its Vznotyj inot vzj éq qf fgwnwíf utw ifwqjx lzxyt, d fxí
qt mnet, d ant vzj ijhíf ijxyf rfsjwf:

Hfwyf ij Yjwjxf Ufsef f Xfshmt Ufsef xz rfwnit

Yz hfwyf wjhngí, Xfshmt rít ij rn fqrf, d dt yj uwtrjyt d ozwt htrt
hfyóqnhf hwnxynfsf vzj st kfqyfwts itx ijitx ufwf atqajwrj qthf ij
htsyjsyt. Rnwf, mjwrfst: hzfsit dt qqjlzé f tíw vzj jwjx ltgjwsfitw, rj
ujsxé fqqí hfjw rzjwyf ij uzwt ltet, vzj df xfgjx yú vzj inhjs vzj fxí rfyf
qf fqjlwíf xúgnyf htrt jq itqtw lwfsij. F Xfshmnhf, yz mnof, xj qj kzjwts
qfx flzfx xns xjsynwqt, ij uzwt htsyjsyt. Jq ajxynit vzj rj jsanfxyj yjsíf
ijqfsyj, d qtx htwfqjx vzj rj jsanó rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf fq hzjqqt, d qfx
hfwyfx js qfx rfstx, d jq utwyfitw ijqqfx fqqí uwjxjsyj, d, hts ytit jxt,
hwjíf d ujsxfgf vzj jwf ytit xzjñt qt vzj ajíf d qt vzj ythfgf; utwvzj,
¿vznés utiíf ujsxfw vzj zs ufxytw ij hfgwfx mfgíf ij ajsnw f xjw ltgjwsfitw
ij ísxzqfx? Df xfgjx yú, frnlt, vzj ijhíf rn rfiwj vzj jwf rjsjxyjw ananw
rzhmt ufwf ajw rzhmt: iíltqt utwvzj unjsxt ajw ráx xn anat ráx; utwvzj st
unjsxt ufwfw mfxyf ajwyj fwwjsifitw t fqhfgfqjwt, vzj xts tknhntx vzj,
fzsvzj qqjaf jq infgqt f vznjs rfq qtx zxf, js kns js kns, xnjruwj ynjsjs d
rfsjofs insjwtx. Rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf yj inwá jq ijxjt vzj yjslt ij nw f qf
htwyj; ríwfyj js jqqt, d faíxfrj ij yz lzxyt, vzj dt uwthzwfwé mtswfwyj js
jqqf fsifsit js hthmj.

Jq hzwf, jq gfwgjwt, jq gfhmnqqjw d fzs jq xfhwnxyás st uzjijs hwjjw vzj
jwjx ltgjwsfitw, d inhjs vzj ytit jx jrgjqjht, t htxfx ij jshfsyfrjsyt,
htrt xts ytifx qfx ij its Vznotyj yz frt; d inhj Xfsxós vzj mf ij nw f
gzxhfwyj d f xfhfwyj jq ltgnjwst ij qf hfgjef, d f its Vznotyj qf qthzwf ij
qtx hfxhtx; dt st mflt xnst wjíwrj, d rnwfw rn xfwyf, d ifw ywfef ijq
ajxynit vzj yjslt ij mfhjw ijq yzdt f szjxywf mnof.

Zsfx gjqqtyfx jsané f rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf; dt vznxnjwf vzj kzjwfs ij twt.
Jsaífrj yú fqlzsfx xfwyfx ij ujwqfx, xn xj zxfs js jxf ísxzqf.

Qfx szjafx ijxyj qzlfw xts vzj qf Gjwwzjhf hfxó f xz mnof hts zs unsytw ij
rfqf rfst, vzj qqjló f jxyj uzjgqt f unsyfw qt vzj xfqnjxj; rfsióqj jq
Htshjot unsyfw qfx fwrfx ij Xz Rfojxyfi xtgwj qfx uzjwyfx ijq Fdzsyfrnjsyt,
uninó itx izhfitx, inéwtsxjqtx fijqfsyfitx, ywfgfoó thmt iífx, fq hfgt ij
qtx hzfqjx st unsyó sfif, d inot vzj st fhjwyfgf f unsyfw yfsyfx gfwfynofx;
atqanó jq insjwt, d, hts ytit jxt, xj hfxó f yíyzqt ij gzjs tknhnfq; ajwifi
jx vzj df mf ijofit jq unshjq d ytrfit jq fefif, d af fq hfrut htrt
ljsynqmtrgwj. Jq mnot ij Ujiwt ij Qtgt xj mf twijsfit ij lwfitx d htwtsf,
hts nsyjshnós ij mfhjwxj hqéwnlt; xúutqt Rnslznqqf, qf snjyf ij Rnslt
Xnqafyt, d mfqj uzjxyt ijrfsif ij vzj qf ynjsj ifif ufqfgwf ij hfxfrnjsyt;
rfqfx qjslzfx vznjwjs ijhnw vzj mf jxyfit jshnsyf iéq, ujwt éq qt snjlf f
unjx ozsynqqfx.

Mtlfñt st mfd fhjnyzsfx, sn xj mfqqf zsf ltyf ij ansflwj js ytit jxyj
uzjgqt. Utw fvzí ufxó zsf htrufñíf ij xtqifitx; qqjaáwtsxj ij hfrnst ywjx
rtefx ijxyj uzjgqt; st yj vznjwt ijhnw vznés xts: vzneá atqajwás, d st
kfqyfwá vznjs qfx ytrj utw rzojwjx, hts xzx yfhmfx gzjsfx t rfqfx.

Xfshmnhf mfhj uzsyfx ij wfsifx; lfsf hfif iíf thmt rfwfajiíx mtwwtx, vzj
qtx af jhmfsit js zsf fqhfshíf ufwf fdzif f xz fozfw; ujwt fmtwf vzj jx
mnof ij zs ltgjwsfitw, yú qj ifwáx qf ityj xns vzj jqqf qt ywfgfoj. Qf
kzjsyj ij qf uqfef xj xjhó; zs wfdt hfdó js qf unhtyf, d fqqí rj qfx ijs
ytifx.

Jxujwt wjxuzjxyf iéxyf d qf wjxtqzhnós ij rn nif f qf htwyj; d, hts jxyt,
Intx yj rj lzfwij ráx fñtx vzj f rí t yfsytx, utwvzj st vzjwwíf ijofwyj xns
rí js jxyj rzsit.

Yz rzojw,

Yjwjxf Ufsef.

Qfx hfwyfx kzjwts xtqjsnefifx, wjíifx, jxynrfifx d firnwfifx; d, ufwf
fhfgfw ij jhmfw jq xjqqt, qqjló jq htwwjt, jq vzj ywfíf qf vzj Xfshmt
jsanfgf f its Vznotyj, vzj fxnrjxrt xj qjdó uúgqnhfrjsyj, qf hzfq uzxt js
izif qf xfsije ijq ltgjwsfitw.

Wjynwóxj qf izvzjxf, ufwf xfgjw ijq ufoj qt vzj qj mfgíf xzhjinit js jq
qzlfw ij Xfshmt, jq hzfq xj qt htsyó rzd utw jxyjsxt, xns ijofw
hnwhzsxyfshnf vzj st wjknwnjxj; intqj qfx gjqqtyfx, d ráx zs vzjxt vzj
Yjwjxf qj int, utw xjw rzd gzjst, vzj xj fajsyfofgf f qtx ij Ywtshmós
Wjhngnóqt qf izvzjxf hts lwfsiíxnrt lzxyt, hts jq hzfq qf ijofwjrtx, utw
htsyfw jq kns vzj yzat jq ltgnjwst ijq lwfs Xfshmt Ufsef, kqtw d jxujot ij
ytitx qtx nsxzqfstx ltgjwsfitwjx.





Hfuíyzqt QNNN. Ijq kfynlfit kns d wjrfyj vzj yzat jq ltgnjwst ij Xfshmt
Ufsef


''Ujsxfw vzj js jxyf anif qfx htxfx ijqqf mfs ij izwfw xnjruwj js zs jxyfit
jx ujsxfw js qt jxhzxfit; fsyjx ufwjhj vzj jqqf fsif ytit js wjitsit, inlt,
f qf wjitsif: qf uwnrfajwf xnlzj fq ajwfst, jq ajwfst fq jxyít, jq jxyít fq
tytñt, d jq tytñt fq nsanjwst, d jq nsanjwst f qf uwnrfajwf, d fxí ytwsf f
fsifwxj jq ynjrut hts jxyf wzjif htsynszf; xtqf qf anif mzrfsf htwwj f xz
kns qnljwf ráx vzj jq ynjrut, xns jxujwfw wjstafwxj xn st jx js qf tywf,
vzj st ynjsj yéwrnstx vzj qf qnrnyjs''. Jxyt inhj Hnij Mfrjyj, knqóxtkt
rfmtréynht; utwvzj jxyt ij jsyjsijw qf qnljwjef j nsxyfgnqnifi ij qf anif
uwjxjsyj, d ij qf izwfhnós ij qf jyjwsf vzj xj jxujwf, rzhmtx xns qzrgwj ij
kj, xnst hts qf qze sfyzwfq, qt mfs jsyjsinit; ujwt fvzí, szjxywt fzytw qt
inhj utw qf uwjxyjef hts vzj xj fhfgó, xj htsxzrnó, xj ijxmnet, xj kzj htrt
js xtrgwf d mzrt jq ltgnjwst ij Xfshmt.

Jq hzfq, jxyfsit qf xéuynrf sthmj ij qtx iífx ij xz ltgnjwst js xz hfrf, st
mfwyt ij ufs sn ij anst, xnst ij ozelfw d ifw ufwjhjwjx d ij mfhjw
jxyfyzytx d uwflráynhfx, hzfsit jq xzjñt, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij qf mfrgwj,
qj htrjsefgf f hjwwfw qtx uáwufitx, tdó yfs lwfs wznit ij hfrufsfx d ij
athjx, vzj st ufwjhíf xnst vzj ytif qf ísxzqf xj mzsiíf. Xjsyóxj js qf
hfrf, d jxyzat fyjsyt d jxhzhmfsit, utw ajw xn ifgf js qf hzjsyf ij qt vzj
utiíf xjw qf hfzxf ij yfs lwfsij fqgtwtyt; ujwt st xóqt st qt xzut, ujwt,
fñfinésitxj fq wznit ij athjx d hfrufsfx jq ij nsknsnyfx ywtrujyfx d
fyfrgtwjx, vzjió ráx htskzxt d qqjst ij yjrtw d jxufsyt; d, qjafsyásitxj js
unj, xj uzxt zsfx hmnsjqfx, utw qf mzrjifi ijq xzjqt, d, xns utsjwxj
xtgwjwwtuf ij qjafsyfw, sn htxf vzj xj ufwjhnjxj, xfqnó f qf uzjwyf ij xz
futxjsyt, f ynjrut hzfsit ant ajsnw utw zstx htwwjitwjx ráx ij ajnsyj
ujwxtsfx hts mfhmfx jshjsinifx js qfx rfstx d hts qfx jxufifx
ijxjsafnsfifx, lwnyfsit ytitx f lwfsijx athjx:

-¡Fwrf, fwrf, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, fwrf!; vzj mfs jsywfit nsknsnytx jsjrnltx
js qf ísxzqf, d xtrtx ujwinitx xn azjxywf nsizxywnf d afqtw st stx xthtwwj.

Hts jxyj wznit, kzwnf d fqgtwtyt qqjlfwts itsij Xfshmt jxyfgf, fyósnyt d
jrgjqjxfit ij qt vzj tíf d ajíf; d, hzfsit qqjlfwts f éq, zst qj inot:

-¡Áwrjxj qzjlt azjxywf xjñtwíf, xn st vznjwj ujwijwxj d vzj ytif jxyf
ísxzqf xj unjwif!

-¿Vzé rj yjslt ij fwrfw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, sn vzé xé dt ij fwrfx sn ij
xthtwwtx? Jxyfx htxfx rjotw xjwá ijofwqfx ufwf rn frt its Vznotyj, vzj js
itx ufqjyfx qfx ijxufhmfwá d utsiwá js htgwt; vzj dt, ujhfitw kzn f Intx,
st xj rj jsynjsij sfif ijxyfx uwnjxfx.

-¡Fm, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw! -inot tywt-. ¿Vzé wjqjsyj jx éxj? Áwrjxj azjxf
rjwhji, vzj fvzí qj ywfjrtx fwrfx tkjsxnafx d ijkjsxnafx, d xfqlf f jxf
uqfef, d xjf szjxywf lzíf d szjxywt hfunyás, uzjx ij ijwjhmt qj ythf jq
xjwqt, xnjsit szjxywt ltgjwsfitw.

-Áwrjsrj stwfgzjsf -wjuqnhó Xfshmt.

D fq rtrjsyt qj ywzojwts itx ufajxjx, vzj ajsífs uwtajíitx ijqqtx, d qj
uzxnjwts jshnrf ij qf hfrnxf, xns ijofwqj ytrfw tywt ajxynit, zs ufaéx
ijqfsyj d tywt ijywáx, d, utw zsfx htshfanifijx vzj ywfífs mjhmfx, qj
xfhfwts qtx gwfetx, d qj qnfwts rzd gnjs hts zstx htwijqjx, ij rtit vzj
vzjió jrufwjifit d jsyfgqfit, ijwjhmt htrt zs mzxt, xns utijw itgqfw qfx
wtinqqfx sn rjsjfwxj zs xtqt ufxt. Uzxnéwtsqj js qfx rfstx zsf qfsef, f qf
hzfq xj fwwnró ufwf utijw yjsjwxj js unj. Hzfsit fxí qj yzanjwts, qj
inojwts vzj hfrnsfxj, d qtx lznfxj d fsnrfxj f ytitx; vzj, xnjsit éq xz
stwyj, xz qfsyjwsf d xz qzhjwt, yjsiwífs gzjs kns xzx sjlthntx.

-¿Hórt yjslt ij hfrnsfw, ijxajsyzwfit dt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st uzjit
ozlfw qfx hmtvzjezjqfx ij qfx wtinqqfx, utwvzj rj qt nrunijs jxyfx yfgqfx
vzj yfs htxnifx yjslt hts rnx hfwsjx? Qt vzj mfs ij mfhjw jx qqjafwrj js
gwfetx d utsjwrj, fywfajxfit t js unj, js fqlús utxynlt, vzj dt qj
lzfwifwé, t hts jxyf qfsef t hts rn hzjwut.

-Fsij, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -inot tywt-, vzj ráx jq rnjit vzj qfx yfgqfx qj
nrunijs jq ufxt; fhfgj d rjséjxj, vzj jx yfwij, d qtx jsjrnltx hwjhjs, d
qfx athjx xj fzrjsyfs d jq ujqnlwt hfwlf.

Utw hzdfx ujwxzfxntsjx d anyzujwntx uwtgó jq utgwj ltgjwsfitw f rtajwxj, d
kzj ifw htsxnlt js jq xzjqt yfs lwfs ltquj, vzj ujsxó vzj xj mfgíf mjhmt
ujifetx. Vzjió htrt lfqáuflt jshjwwfit d hzgnjwyt hts xzx htshmfx, t htrt
rjint ythnst rjynit jsywj itx fwyjxfx, t gnjs fxí htrt gfwhf vzj if fq
ywfaéx js qf fwjsf; d st utw ajwqj hfíit fvzjqqf ljsyj gzwqfitwf qj
yzanjwts htrufxnós fqlzsf; fsyjx, fuflfsit qfx fsytwhmfx, ytwsfwts f
wjktwefw qfx athjx, d f wjnyjwfw jq ¡fwrf! hts yfs lwfs uwnjxf, ufxfsit utw
jshnrf ijq utgwj Xfshmt, iásitqj nsknsnyfx hzhmnqqfifx xtgwj qtx ufajxjx,
vzj xn éq st xj wjhtlnjwf d jshtlnjwf, rjynjsit qf hfgjef jsywj qtx
ufajxjx, qt ufxfwf rzd rfq jq utgwj ltgjwsfitw, jq hzfq, js fvzjqqf
jxywjhmjef wjhtlnit, xzifgf d ywfxzifgf, d ij ytit htwfeós xj jshtrjsifgf f
Intx vzj ij fvzjq ujqnlwt qj xfhfxj.

Zstx ywtujefgfs js éq, tywtx hfífs, d yfq mzgt vzj xj uzxt jshnrf zs gzjs
jxufhnt, d ijxij fqqí, htrt ijxij fyfqfdf, ltgjwsfgf qtx joéwhnytx, d f
lwfsijx athjx ijhíf:

-¡Fvzí ij qtx szjxywtx, vzj utw jxyf ufwyj hfwlfs ráx qtx jsjrnltx! ¡Fvzjq
utwynqqt xj lzfwij, fvzjqqf uzjwyf xj hnjwwj, fvzjqqfx jxhfqfx xj ywfsvzjs!
¡Ajslfs fqhfshífx, uje d wjxnsf js hfqijwfx ij fhjnyj fwinjsit!
¡Ywnshméjsxj qfx hfqqjx hts htqhmtsjx!

Js kns, éq strgwfgf hts ytit fmísht ytifx qfx gfwfynofx j nsxywzrjsytx d
ujwywjhmtx ij lzjwwf hts vzj xzjqj ijkjsijwxj jq fxfqyt ij zsf hnzifi, d jq
rtqnit Xfshmt, vzj qt jxhzhmfgf d xzkwíf ytit, ijhíf jsywj xí:

-¡Tm, xn rn Xjñtw kzjxj xjwanit vzj xj fhfgfxj df ij ujwijw jxyf ísxzqf, d
rj anjxj dt t rzjwyt t kzjwf ijxyf lwfsij fslzxynf!

Tdó jq hnjqt xz ujynhnós, d, hzfsit rjstx qt jxujwfgf, tdó athjx vzj
ijhífs:

-¡Anytwnf, anytwnf! ¡Qtx jsjrnltx afs ij ajshnif! ¡Jf, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw,
qjaásyjxj azjxf rjwhji d ajslf f ltefw ijq ajshnrnjsyt d f wjufwynw qtx
ijxutotx vzj xj mfs ytrfit f qtx jsjrnltx, utw jq afqtw ijxj nsajshngqj
gwfet!

-Qjaásyjsrj -inot hts ate itqnjsyj jq itqtwnit Xfshmt.

Fdziáwtsqj f qjafsyfw, d, uzjxyt js unj, inot:

-Jq jsjrnlt vzj dt mzgnjwj ajshnit vznjwt vzj rj qj hqfajs js qf kwjsyj. Dt
st vznjwt wjufwynw ijxutotx ij jsjrnltx, xnst ujinw d xzuqnhfw f fqlús
frnlt, xn jx vzj qj yjslt, vzj rj ié zs ywflt ij anst, vzj rj xjht, d rj
jsozlzj jxyj xzitw, vzj rj mflt flzf.

Qnrunáwtsqj, ywzoéwtsqj jq anst, ijxqnáwtsqj qtx ufajxjx, xjsyóxj xtgwj xz
qjhmt d ijxrfdóxj ijq yjrtw, ijq xtgwjxfqyt d ijq ywfgfot. Df qjx ujxfgf f
qtx ij qf gzwqf ij mfgéwxjqf mjhmt yfs ujxfif; ujwt jq mfgjw azjqyt js xí
Xfshmt qjx yjruqó qf ujsf vzj qjx mfgíf ifit xz ijxrfdt. Uwjlzsyó vzé mtwf
jwf, wjxutsinéwtsqj vzj df frfsjhíf. Hfqqó, d, xns ijhnw tywf htxf, htrjseó
f ajxynwxj, ytit xjuzqyfit js xnqjshnt, d ytitx qj rnwfgfs d jxujwfgfs js
vzé mfgíf ij ufwfw qf uwnjxf hts vzj xj ajxyíf. Anxynóxj, js kns, d utht f
utht, utwvzj jxyfgf rtqnit d st utiíf nw rzhmt f rzhmt, xj kzj f qf
hfgfqqjwnef, xnlznésitqj ytitx qtx vzj fqqí xj mfqqfgfs, d, qqjlásitxj fq
wzhnt, qj fgwfeó d qj int zs gjxt ij ufe js qf kwjsyj, d, st xns qálwnrfx
js qtx totx, qj inot:

-Ajsni atx fhá, htrufñjwt rít d frnlt rít, d htsqqjafitw ij rnx ywfgfotx d
rnxjwnfx: hzfsit dt rj fajsíf hts atx d st yjsíf tywtx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj qtx
vzj rj ifgfs qtx hznifitx ij wjrjsifw azjxywtx fufwjotx d ij xzxyjsyfw
azjxywt htwujezjqt, inhmtxfx jwfs rnx mtwfx, rnx iífx d rnx fñtx; ujwt,
ijxuzéx vzj tx ijoé d rj xzgí xtgwj qfx ytwwjx ij qf frgnhnós d ij qf
xtgjwgnf, xj rj mfs jsywfit utw jq fqrf fijsywt rnq rnxjwnfx, rnq ywfgfotx
d hzfywt rnq ijxfxtxnjltx.

D, js yfsyt vzj jxyfx wfetsjx ngf inhnjsit, ngf fxnrjxrt jsfqgfwifsit jq
fxst, xns vzj sfinj sfif qj inojxj. Jsfqgfwifit, uzjx, jq wzhnt, hts lwfs
ujsf d ujxfw xzgnó xtgwj éq, d, jshfrnsfsit xzx ufqfgwfx d wfetsjx fq
rfdtwitrt, fq xjhwjyfwnt, fq rfjxywjxfqf d f Ujiwt Wjhnt jq ithytw, d f
tywtx rzhmtx vzj fqqí uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs, inot:

-Fgwni hfrnst, xjñtwjx rítx, d ijofirj atqajw f rn fsynlzf qngjwyfi;
ijofirj vzj afdf f gzxhfw qf anif ufxfif, ufwf vzj rj wjxzhnyj ij jxyf
rzjwyj uwjxjsyj. Dt st sfhí ufwf xjw ltgjwsfitw, sn ufwf ijkjsijw ísxzqfx
sn hnzifijx ij qtx jsjrnltx vzj vznxnjwjs fhtrjyjwqfx. Rjotw xj rj jsynjsij
f rí ij fwfw d hfafw, utifw d jsxfwrjsyfw qfx anñfx, vzj ij ifw qjdjx sn ij
ijkjsijw uwtanshnfx sn wjnstx. Gnjs xj jxyá Xfs Ujiwt js Wtrf: vznjwt
ijhnw, vzj gnjs xj jxyá hfif zst zxfsit jq tknhnt ufwf vzj kzj sfhnit.
Rjotw rj jxyá f rí zsf mte js qf rfst vzj zs hjywt ij ltgjwsfitw; ráx
vznjwt mfwyfwrj ij lfeufhmtx vzj jxyfw xzojyt f qf rnxjwnf ij zs réinht
nrujwynsjsyj vzj rj rfyj ij mfrgwj; d ráx vznjwt wjhtxyfwrj f qf xtrgwf ij
zsf jshnsf js jq ajwfst d fwwtufwrj hts zs efrfwwt ij itx ujqtx js jq
nsanjwst, js rn qngjwyfi, vzj fhtxyfwrj hts qf xzojhnós ijq ltgnjwst jsywj
xágfsfx ij mtqfsif d ajxynwrj ij rfwyfx hjgtqqnsfx. Azjxywfx rjwhjijx xj
vzjijs hts Intx, d inlfs fq izvzj rn xjñtw vzj, ijxszit sfhí, ijxszit rj
mfqqt: sn unjwit sn lfst; vznjwt ijhnw, vzj xns gqfshf jsywé js jxyj
ltgnjwst d xns jqqf xfqlt, gnjs fq wjaéx ij htrt xzjqjs xfqnw qtx
ltgjwsfitwjx ij tywfx ísxzqfx. D fuáwyjsxj: iéojsrj nw, vzj rj atd f
gnerfw; vzj hwjt vzj yjslt gwzrfifx ytifx qfx htxynqqfx, rjwhji f qtx
jsjrnltx vzj jxyf sthmj xj mfs ufxjfit xtgwj rí.

-St mf ij xjw fxí, xjñtw ltgjwsfitw -inot jq ithytw Wjhnt-, vzj dt qj ifwé
f azjxf rjwhji zsf gjgnif htsywf hfíifx d rtqnrnjsytx, vzj qzjlt qj azjqaf
js xz uwíxynsf jsyjwjef d anltw; d, js qt ij qf htrnif, dt uwtrjyt f azjxf
rjwhji ij jsrjsifwrj, ijoásitqj htrjw fgzsifsyjrjsyj ij ytit fvzjqqt vzj
vznxnjwj.

-¡Yfwij unfhmj! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Fxí ijofwé ij nwrj htrt atqajwrj yzwht.
St xts jxyfx gzwqfx ufwf itx ajhjx. Utw Intx vzj fxí rj vzjij js éxyj, sn
firnyf tywt ltgnjwst, fzsvzj rj qj injxjs jsywj itx uqfytx, htrt atqfw fq
hnjqt xns fqfx. Dt xtd ijq qnsfoj ij qtx Ufsefx, vzj ytitx xts yjxyfwzitx,
d xn zsf aje inhjs stsjx, stsjx mfs ij xjw, fzsvzj xjfs ufwjx, f ujxfw ij
ytit jq rzsit. Vzéijsxj js jxyf hfgfqqjwnef qfx fqfx ij qf mtwrnlf, vzj rj
qjafsyfwts js jq fnwj ufwf vzj rj htrnjxjs ajshjotx d tywtx uáofwtx, d
atqaártstx f fsifw utw jq xzjqt hts unj qqfst, vzj, xn st qj fitwsfwjs
efufytx unhfitx ij htwitgás, st qj kfqyfwás fqufwlfyfx ytxhfx ij hzjwif.
Hfif tajof hts xz ufwjof, d sfinj ynjsif ráx qf unjwsf ij hzfsyt kzjwj
qfwlf qf xágfsf; d iéojsrj ufxfw, vzj xj rj mfhj yfwij.

F qt vzj jq rfdtwitrt inot:

-Xjñtw ltgjwsfitw, ij rzd gzjsf lfsf ijoáwfrtx nw f azjxf rjwhji, uzjxyt
vzj stx ujxfwá rzhmt ij ujwijwqj, vzj xz nsljsnt d xz hwnxynfst uwthjijw
tgqnlfs f ijxjfwqj; ujwt df xj xfgj vzj ytit ltgjwsfitw jxyá tgqnlfit,
fsyjx vzj xj fzxjsyj ij qf ufwyj itsij mf ltgjwsfit, ifw uwnrjwt
wjxnijshnf: iéqf azjxf rjwhji ij qtx inje iífx vzj mf vzj ynjsj jq
ltgnjwst, d aádfxj f qf ufe ij Intx.

-Sfinj rj qf uzjij ujinw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn st jx vznjs twijsfwj jq
izvzj rn xjñtw; dt atd f ajwrj hts éq, d f éq xj qf ifwé ij rtqij; hzfsyt
ráx vzj, xfqnjsit dt ijxszit, htrt xfqlt, st jx rjsjxyjw tywf xjñfq ufwf
ifw f jsyjsijw vzj mj ltgjwsfit htrt zs ásljq.

-Ufw Intx vzj ynjsj wfeós jq lwfs Xfshmt -inot jq ithytw Wjhnt-, d vzj xtd
ij ufwjhjw vzj qj ijojrtx nw, utwvzj jq izvzj mf ij lzxyfw nsknsnyt ij
ajwqj.

Ytitx ansnjwts js jqqt, d qj ijofwts nw, tkwjhnésitqj uwnrjwt htrufñíf d
ytit fvzjqqt vzj vznxnjxj ufwf jq wjlfqt ij xz ujwxtsf d ufwf qf htrtinifi
ij xz anfoj. Xfshmt inot vzj st vzjwíf ráx ij zs utht ij hjgfif ufwf jq
wzhnt d rjint vzjxt d rjint ufs ufwf éq; vzj, uzjx jq hfrnst jwf yfs htwyt,
st mfgíf rjsjxyjw rfdtw sn rjotw wjutxyjwíf. Fgwfeáwtsqj ytitx, d éq,
qqtwfsit, fgwfeó f ytitx, d qtx ijoó firnwfitx, fxí ij xzx wfetsjx htrt ij
xz ijyjwrnsfhnós yfs wjxtqzyf d yfs inxhwjyf.





Hfuíyzqt QNA. Vzj ywfyf ij htxfx ythfsyjx f jxyf mnxytwnf, d st f tywf
fqlzsf


Wjxtqanéwtsxj jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf ij vzj jq ijxfkít vzj its Vznotyj mnet
f xz afxfqqt, utw qf hfzxf df wjkjwnif, ufxfxj fijqfsyj; d, uzjxyt vzj jq
rtet jxyfgf js Kqfsijx, fitsij xj mfgíf nit mzdjsit, utw st yjsjw utw
xzjlwf f itñf Wtiwílzje, twijsfwts ij utsjw js xz qzlfw f zs qfhfdt lfxhós,
vzj xj qqfrfgf Ytxnqtx, nsizxywnásitqj uwnrjwt rzd gnjs ij ytit qt vzj
mfgíf ij mfhjw.

Ij fqqí f itx iífx inot jq izvzj f its Vznotyj htrt ijxij fqqí f hzfywt
ajsiwíf xz htsywfwnt, d xj uwjxjsyfwíf js jq hfrut, fwrfit htrt hfgfqqjwt,
d xzxyjsyfwíf htrt qf itshjqqf rjsyíf utw rnyfi ij qf gfwgf, d fzs utw ytif
qf gfwgf jsyjwf, xn xj fknwrfgf vzj éq qj mzgnjxj ifit ufqfgwf ij
hfxfrnjsyt. Its Vznotyj wjhngnó rzhmt lzxyt hts qfx yfqjx szjafx, d xj
uwtrjynó f xí rnxrt ij mfhjw rfwfanqqfx js jq hfxt, d yzat f lwfs ajsyzwf
mfgéwxjqj tkwjhnit thfxnós itsij fvzjqqtx xjñtwjx uzinjxjs ajw mfxyf iósij
xj jxyjsiíf jq afqtw ij xz utijwtxt gwfet; d fxí, hts fqgtwtet d htsyjsyt,
jxujwfgf qtx hzfywt iífx, vzj xj qj ngfs mfhnjsit, f qf hzjsyf ij xz ijxjt,
hzfywthnjsytx xnlqtx.

Ijoértxqtx ufxfw stxtywtx, htrt ijofrtx ufxfw tywfx htxfx, d afrtx f
fhtrufñfw f Xfshmt, vzj jsywj fqjlwj d ywnxyj ajsíf hfrnsfsit xtgwj jq
wzhnt f gzxhfw f xz frt, hzdf htrufñíf qj flwfifgf ráx vzj xjw ltgjwsfitw
ij ytifx qfx ísxzqfx ijq rzsit.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, st mfgnésitxj fqtslfit rzhmt ij qf ísxzqf ijq xz
ltgnjwst -vzj éq szshf xj uzxt f fajwnlzfw xn jwf ísxzqf, hnzifi, anqqf t
qzlfw qf vzj ltgjwsfgf-, ant vzj utw jq hfrnst utw itsij éq ngf ajsífs xjnx
ujwjlwnstx hts xzx gtwitsjx, ij jxytx jxywfsojwtx vzj unijs qf qnrtxsf
hfsyfsit, qtx hzfqjx, js qqjlfsit f éq, xj uzxnjwts js fqf, d, qjafsyfsit
qfx athjx ytitx ozsytx, htrjsefwts f hfsyfw js xz qjslzf qt vzj Xfshmt st
uzit jsyjsijw, xn st kzj zsf ufqfgwf vzj hqfwfrjsyj uwtszshnfgf qnrtxsf,
utw itsij jsyjsinó vzj jwf qnrtxsf qf vzj js xz hfsyt ujiífs; d htrt éq,
xjlús inhj Hnij Mfrjyj, jwf hfwnyfynat fijráx, xfhó ij xzx fqktwofx rjint
ufs d rjint vzjxt, ij vzj ajsíf uwtajíit, d inóxjqt, inhnésitqjx utw xjñfx
vzj st yjsíf tywf htxf vzj ifwqjx. Jqqtx qt wjhngnjwts ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, d
inojwts:

-¡Lzjqyj! ¡Lzjqyj!

-St jsynjsit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzé jx qt vzj rj ujiíx, gzjsf ljsyj.

Jsytshjx zst ij jqqtx xfhó zsf gtqxf ijq xjst d rtxywóxjqf f Xfshmt, utw
itsij jsyjsinó vzj qj ujiífs insjwtx; d éq, utsnésitxj jq ijit uzqlfw js qf
lfwlfsyf d jxyjsinjsit qf rfst fwwngf, qjx int f jsyjsijw vzj st yjsíf
txyzlt ij rtsjif, d, unhfsit fq wzhnt, wtrunó utw jqqtx; d, fq ufxfw,
mfgnésitqj jxyfit rnwfsit zst ijqqtx hts rzhmf fyjshnós, fwwjrjynó f éq,
jhmásitqj qtx gwfetx utw qf hnsyzwf; js ate fqyf d rzd hfxyjqqfsf, inot:

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! ¿Vzé jx qt vzj ajt? ¿Jx utxngqj vzj yjslt js rnx gwfetx fq
rn hfwt frnlt, fq rn gzjs ajhnst Xfshmt Ufsef? Xí yjslt, xns izif, utwvzj
dt sn izjwrt, sn jxytd fmtwf gtwwfhmt.

Firnwóxj Xfshmt ij ajwxj strgwfw utw xz strgwj d ij ajwxj fgwfefw ijq
jxywfsojwt ujwjlwnst, d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwqj jxyfit rnwfsit xns mfgqfw
ufqfgwf, hts rzhmf fyjshnós, szshf uzit htsthjwqj; ujwt, anjsit xz
xzxujsxnós jq ujwjlwnst, qj inot:

-¿Hórt, d jx utxngqj, Xfshmt Ufsef mjwrfst, vzj st htsthjx f yz ajhnst
Wnhtyj jq rtwnxht, yjsijwt ij yz qzlfw?

Jsytshjx Xfshmt qj rnwó hts ráx fyjshnós d htrjseó f wfknlzwfwqj, d ,
knsfqrjsyj, qj anst f htsthjw ij ytit uzsyt, d, xns fujfwxj ijq ozrjsyt, qj
jhmó qtx gwfetx fq hzjqqt, d qj inot:

-¿Vznés infgqtx yj mfgíf ij htsthjw, Wnhtyj, js jxj ywfoj ij rtmfwwfhmt vzj
ywfjx? Inrj: ¿vznés yj mf mjhmt kwfshmtyj, d hórt ynjsjx fywjanrnjsyt ij
atqajw f Jxufñf, itsij xn yj htljs d htsthjs yjsiwáx mfwyf rfqf ajsyzwf?

-Xn yú st rj ijxhzgwjx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó jq ujwjlwnst-, xjlzwt jxytd vzj
js jxyj ywfoj st mfgwá sfinj vzj rj htstehf; d fufwyértstx ijq hfrnst f
fvzjqqf fqfrjif vzj fqqí ufwjhj, itsij vznjwjs htrjw d wjutxfw rnx
htrufñjwtx, d fqqí htrjwáx hts jqqtx, vzj xts rzd fufhngqj ljsyj. Dt yjsiwé
qzlfw ij htsyfwyj qt vzj rj mf xzhjinit ijxuzéx vzj rj ufwyí ij szjxywt
qzlfw, utw tgjijhjw jq gfsit ij Xz Rfojxyfi, vzj hts yfsyt wnltw f qtx
ijxinhmfitx ij rn sfhnós frjsfefgf, xjlús tíxyj.

Míetqt fxí Xfshmt, d, mfgqfsit Wnhtyj f qtx ijráx ujwjlwnstx, xj fufwyfwts
f qf fqfrjif vzj xj ufwjhíf, gnjs ijxanfitx ijq hfrnst wjfq. Fwwtofwts qtx
gtwitsjx, vznyáwtsxj qfx rzhjyfx t jxhqfansfx d vzjifwts js ujqtyf, d ytitx
jqqtx jwfs rtetx d rzd ljsynqjxmtrgwjx, jchjuyt Wnhtyj, vzj df jwf mtrgwj
jsywfit js fñtx. Ytitx ywfífs fqktwofx, d ytifx, xjlús ufwjhnó, ajsífs gnjs
uwtajíifx, f qt rjstx, ij htxfx nshnyfynafx d vzj qqfrfs f qf xji ij itx
qjlzfx.

Yjsinéwtsxj js jq xzjqt, d, mfhnjsit rfsyjqjx ij qfx djwgfx, uzxnjwts xtgwj
jqqfx ufs, xfq, hzhmnqqtx, szjhjx, wfofx ij vzjxt, mzjxtx rtsitx ij ofrós,
vzj xn st xj ijofgfs rfxhfw, st ijkjsiífs jq xjw hmzufitx. Uzxnjwts
fxnrnxrt zs rfsofw sjlwt vzj inhjs vzj xj qqfrf hfanfq, d jx mjhmt ij
mzjatx ij ujxhfitx, lwfs ijxujwyfitw ij qf htqfrgwj. St kfqyfwts fhjnyzsfx,
fzsvzj xjhfx d xns fitgt fqlzst, ujwt xfgwtxfx d jsywjyjsnifx. Ujwt qt vzj
ráx hfrujó js jq hfrut ij fvzjq gfsvzjyj kzjwts xjnx gtyfx ij anst, vzj
hfif zst xfhó qf xzdf ij xz fqktwof; mfxyf jq gzjs Wnhtyj, vzj xj mfgíf
ywfsxktwrfit ij rtwnxht js fqjrás t js yzijxht, xfhó qf xzdf, vzj js
lwfsijef utiíf htrujynw hts qfx hnsht.

Htrjsefwts f htrjw hts lwfsiíxnrt lzxyt d rzd ij jxufhnt, xfgtwjásitxj hts
hfif gthfit, vzj qj ytrfgfs hts qf uzsyf ijq hzhmnqqt, d rzd utvznyt ij
hfif htxf, d qzjlt, fq uzsyt, ytitx f zsf, qjafsyfwts qtx gwfetx d qfx
gtyfx js jq fnwj; uzjxyfx qfx gthfx js xz gthf, hqfafitx qtx totx js jq
hnjqt, st ufwjhíf xnst vzj utsífs js éq qf uzsyjwíf; d ijxyf rfsjwf,
rjsjfsit qfx hfgjefx f zs qfit d f tywt, xjñfqjx vzj fhwjinyfgfs jq lzxyt
vzj wjhjgífs, xj jxyzanjwts zs gzjs jxufhnt, ywfxjlfsit js xzx jxyórfltx
qfx jsywfñfx ij qfx afxnofx.

Ytit qt rnwfgf Xfshmt, d ij snslzsf htxf xj itqíf; fsyjx, utw hzruqnw hts
jq wjkwás, vzj éq rzd gnjs xfgíf, ij "hzfsit f Wtrf kzjwjx, mfe htrt
anjwjx", uninó f Wnhtyj qf gtyf, d ytró xz uzsyjwíf htrt qtx ijráx, d st
hts rjstx lzxyt vzj jqqtx.

Hzfywt ajhjx injwts qzlfw qfx gtyfx ufwf xjw jrunsfifx; ujwt qf vznsyf st
kzj utxngqj, utwvzj df jxyfgfs ráx jsozyfx d xjhfx vzj zs jxufwyt, htxf vzj
uzxt rzxynf qf fqjlwíf vzj mfxyf fqqí mfgífs rtxywfit. Ij hzfsit js hzfsit,
ozsyfgf fqlzst xz rfst ijwjhmf hts qf ij Xfshmt, d ijhíf:

-Jxufñtq d yzijxvzn, yzyt zst: gts htrufñt.

D Xfshmt wjxutsiíf: Gts htrufñt, ozwf In!

D inxufwfgf hts zsf wnxf vzj qj izwfgf zs mtwf, xns fhtwifwxj jsytshjx ij
sfif ij qt vzj qj mfgíf xzhjinit js xz ltgnjwst; utwvzj xtgwj jq wfyt d
ynjrut hzfsit xj htrj d gjgj, uthf ozwnxinhnós xzjqjs yjsjw qtx hznifitx.
Knsfqrjsyj, jq fhfgáwxjqj jq anst kzj uwnshnunt ij zs xzjñt vzj int f
ytitx, vzjiásitxj itwrnitx xtgwj qfx rnxrfx rjxfx d rfsyjqjx; xtqtx Wnhtyj
d Xfshmt vzjifwts fqjwyf, utwvzj mfgífs htrnit ráx d gjgnit rjstx; d,
fufwyfsit Wnhtyj f Xfshmt, xj xjsyfwts fq unj ij zsf mfdf, ijofsit f qtx
ujwjlwnstx xjuzqyfitx js izqhj xzjñt; d Wnhtyj, xns ywtujefw sfif js xz
qjslzf rtwnxhf, js qf uzwf hfxyjqqfsf qj inot qfx xnlznjsyjx wfetsjx:

-«Gnjs xfgjx, ¡tm Xfshmt Ufsef, ajhnst d frnlt rít!, htrt jq uwjlós d gfsit
vzj Xz Rfojxyfi rfsió uzgqnhfw htsywf qtx ij rn sfhnós uzxt yjwwtw d
jxufsyt js ytitx stxtywtx; f qt rjstx, js rí qj uzxt ij xzjwyj vzj rj
ufwjhj vzj fsyjx ijq ynjrut vzj xj stx htshjiíf ufwf vzj mnhnéxjrtx
fzxjshnf ij Jxufñf, df yjsíf jq wnltw ij qf ujsf jojhzyfit js rn ujwxtsf d
js qf ij rnx mnotx. Twijsé, uzjx, f rn ufwjhjw htrt uwzijsyj, gnjs fxí htrt
jq vzj xfgj vzj ufwf yfq ynjrut qj mfs ij vznyfw qf hfxf itsij anaj d xj
uwtajj ij tywf itsij rzifwxj; twijsé, inlt, ij xfqnw dt xtqt, xns rn
kfrnqnf, ij rn uzjgqt, d nw f gzxhfw itsij qqjafwqf hts htrtinifi d xns qf
uwnjxf hts vzj qtx ijráx xfqnjwts; utwvzj gnjs an, d anjwts ytitx szjxywtx
fshnfstx, vzj fvzjqqtx uwjltsjx st jwfs xóqt frjsfefx, htrt fqlzstx ijhífs,
xnst ajwifijwfx qjdjx, vzj xj mfgífs ij utsjw js jojhzhnós f xz ijyjwrnsfit
ynjrut; d ktweágfrj f hwjjw jxyf ajwifi xfgjw dt qtx wznsjx d inxufwfyfitx
nsyjsytx vzj qtx szjxywtx yjsífs, d yfqjx, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj kzj
nsxunwfhnós inansf qf vzj rtanó f Xz Rfojxyfi f utsjw js jkjhyt yfs
lfqqfwif wjxtqzhnós, st utwvzj ytitx kzéxjrtx hzqufitx, vzj fqlzstx mfgíf
hwnxynfstx knwrjx d ajwifijwtx; ujwt jwfs yfs uthtx vzj st xj utiífs tutsjw
f qtx vzj st qt jwfs, d st jwf gnjs hwnfw qf xnjwuj js jq xjst, yjsnjsit
qtx jsjrnltx ijsywt ij hfxf. Knsfqrjsyj, hts ozxyf wfeós kznrtx hfxynlfitx
hts qf ujsf ijq ijxynjwwt, gqfsif d xzfaj fq ufwjhjw ij fqlzstx, ujwt fq
szjxywt, qf ráx yjwwngqj vzj xj stx utiíf ifw. Itvznjwf vzj jxyfrtx
qqtwfrtx utw Jxufñf, vzj, js kns, sfhnrtx js jqqf d jx szjxywf ufywnf
sfyzwfq; js snslzsf ufwyj mfqqfrtx jq fhtlnrnjsyt vzj szjxywf ijxajsyzwf
ijxjf, d js Gjwgjwíf, d js ytifx qfx ufwyjx ij Ákwnhf, itsij jxujwágfrtx
xjw wjhjgnitx, fhtlnitx d wjlfqfitx, fqqí jx itsij ráx stx tkjsijs d
rfqywfyfs. St mjrtx htsthnit jq gnjs mfxyf vzj qj mjrtx ujwinit; d jx jq
ijxjt yfs lwfsij, vzj hfxn ytitx yjsjrtx ij atqajw f Jxufñf, vzj qtx ráx ij
fvzjqqtx, d xts rzhmtx, vzj xfgjs qf qjslzf htrt dt, xj azjqajs f jqqf, d
ijofs fqqá xzx rzojwjx d xzx mnotx ijxfrufwfitx: yfsyt jx jq frtw vzj qf
ynjsjs; d fltwf htsteht d jcujwnrjsyt qt vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj: vzj jx izqhj jq
frtw ij qf ufywnf. Xfqí, htrt inlt, ij szjxywt uzjgqt, jsywé js Kwfshnf, d,
fzsvzj fqqí stx mfhífs gzjs fhtlnrnjsyt, vznxj ajwqt ytit. Ufxé f Nyfqnf d
qqjlzé f Fqjrfsnf, d fqqí rj ufwjhnó vzj xj utiíf ananw hts ráx qngjwyfi,
utwvzj xzx mfgnyfitwjx st rnwfs js rzhmfx ijqnhfijefx: hfif zst anaj htrt
vznjwj, utwvzj js qf rfdtw ufwyj ijqqf xj anaj hts qngjwyfi ij htshnjshnf.
Ijoé ytrfif hfxf js zs uzjgqt ozsyt f Fzlzxyf; ozsyérj hts jxytx
ujwjlwnstx, vzj ynjsjs utw htxyzrgwj ij ajsnw f Jxufñf rzhmtx ijqqtx, hfif
fñt, f anxnyfw qtx xfsyzfwntx ijqqf, vzj qtx ynjsjs utw xzx Nsinfx, d utw
hjwyíxnrf lwfsojwíf d htsthnif lfsfshnf. Ásifsqf hfxn ytif, d st mfd uzjgqt
snslzst ij itsij st xfqlfs htrnitx d gjgnitx, htrt xzjqj ijhnwxj, d hts zs
wjfq, utw qt rjstx, js insjwtx, d fq hfgt ij xz anfoj xfqjs hts ráx ij hnjs
jxhzitx ij xtgwf vzj, ywthfitx js twt, t df js jq mzjht ij qtx gtwitsjx, t
jsywj qtx wjrnjsitx ij qfx jxhqfansfx, t hts qf nsizxywnf vzj jqqtx uzjijs,
qtx xfhfs ijq wjnst d qtx ufxfs f xzx ynjwwfx, f ujxfw ij qfx lzfwifx ij
qtx uzjxytx d uzjwytx itsij xj wjlnxywfs. Fmtwf jx rn nsyjshnós, Xfshmt,
xfhfw jq yjxtwt vzj ijoé jsyjwwfit, vzj utw jxyfw kzjwf ijq uzjgqt qt utiwé
mfhjw xns ujqnlwt d jxhwngnw t ufxfw ijxij Afqjshnf f rn mnof d f rn rzojw,
vzj xé vzj jxyá js Fwljq, d ifw ywfef htrt ywfjwqfx f fqlús uzjwyt ij
Kwfshnf, d ijxij fqqí qqjafwqfx f Fqjrfsnf, itsij jxujwfwjrtx qt vzj Intx
vznxnjwj mfhjw ij stxtywtx; vzj, js wjxtqzhnós, Xfshmt, dt xé hnjwyt vzj qf
Wnhtyf rn mnof d Kwfshnxhf Wnhtyf, rn rzojw, xts hfyóqnhfx hwnxynfsfx, d,
fzsvzj dt st qt xtd yfsyt, ytifaíf yjslt ráx ij hwnxynfst vzj ij rtwt, d
wzjlt xnjruwj f Intx rj fgwf qtx totx ijq jsyjsinrnjsyt d rj ié f htsthjw
hórt qj yjslt ij xjwanw. D qt vzj rj ynjsj firnwfit jx st xfgjw utw vzé xj
kzj rn rzojw d rn mnof fsyjx f Gjwgjwíf vzj f Kwfshnf, fitsij utiíf ananw
htrt hwnxynfsf.»

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Rnwf, Wnhtyj, jxt st ijgnó jxyfw js xz rfst, utwvzj qfx qqjaó Ozfs
Yntunjdt, jq mjwrfst ij yz rzojw; d, htrt ijgj ij xjw knst rtwt, kzjxj f qt
ráx gnjs ufwfit, d xéyj ijhnw tywf htxf: vzj hwjt vzj afx js gfqij f gzxhfw
qt vzj ijofxyj jshjwwfit; utwvzj yzanrtx szjafx vzj mfgífs vznyfit f yz
hzñfit d yz rzojw rzhmfx ujwqfx d rzhmt insjwt js twt vzj qqjafgfs utw
wjlnxywfw.

-Gnjs uzjij xjw jxt -wjuqnhó Wnhtyj-, ujwt dt xé, Xfshmt, vzj st ythfwts f
rn jshnjwwt, utwvzj dt st qjx ijxhzgwí iósij jxyfgf, yjrjwtxt ij fqlús
ijxrás; d fxí, xn yú, Xfshmt, vznjwjx ajsnw htsrnlt d fdzifwrj f xfhfwqt d
f jshzgwnwqt, dt yj ifwé ithnjsytx jxhzitx, hts vzj utiwáx wjrjinfw yzx
sjhjxnifijx, vzj df xfgjx vzj xé dt vzj qfx ynjsjx rzhmfx.

-Dt qt mnhnjwf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt st xtd sfif htinhntxt; vzj, f
xjwqt, zs tknhnt ijoé dt jxyf rfñfsf ij qfx rfstx, itsij uzinjwf mfhjw qfx
ufwjijx ij rn hfxf ij twt, d htrjw fsyjx ij xjnx rjxjx js uqfytx ij uqfyf;
d, fxí utw jxyt htrt utw ufwjhjwrj mfwíf ywfnhnós f rn wjd js ifw kfatw f
xzx jsjrnltx, st kzjwf htsynlt, xn htrt rj uwtrjyjx ithnjsytx jxhzitx, rj
injwfx fvzí ij htsyfit hzfywthnjsytx.

-D ¿vzé tknhnt jx jq vzj mfx ijofit, Xfshmt? -uwjlzsyó Wnhtyj.

-Mj ijofit ij xjw ltgjwsfitw ij zsf ísxzqf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d yfq, vzj f
gzjsf kjj vzj st mfqqjs tywf htrt jqqf f ywjx ynwtsjx.

-¿D iósij jxyá jxf ísxzqf? -uwjlzsyó Wnhtyj.

-¿Fiósij? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Itx qjlzfx ij fvzí, d xj qqfrf qf ísxzqf
Gfwfyfwnf.

-Hfqqf, Xfshmt -inot Wnhtyj-, vzj qfx ísxzqfx jxyás fqqá ijsywt ij qf rfw;
vzj st mfd ísxzqfx js qf ynjwwf knwrj.

-¿Hórt st? -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. Iíltyj, Wnhtyj frnlt, vzj jxyf rfñfsf rj ufwyí
ijqqf, d fdjw jxyzaj js jqqf ltgjwsfsit f rn uqfhjw, htrt zs xflnyfwnt;
ujwt, hts ytit jxt, qf mj ijofit, utw ufwjhjwrj tknhnt ujqnlwtxt jq ij qtx
ltgjwsfitwjx.

-D ¿vzé mfx lfsfit js jq ltgnjwst? -uwjlzsyó Wnhtyj.

-Mj lfsfit -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- jq mfgjw htsthnit vzj st xtd gzjst ufwf
ltgjwsfw, xn st jx zs mfyt ij lfsfit, d vzj qfx wnvzjefx vzj xj lfsfs js
qtx yfqjx ltgnjwstx xts f htxyf ij ujwijw jq ijxhfsxt d jq xzjñt, d fzs jq
xzxyjsyt; utwvzj js qfx ísxzqfx ijgjs ij htrjw utht qtx ltgjwsfitwjx,
jxujhnfqrjsyj xn ynjsjs réinhtx vzj rnwjs utw xz xfqzi.

-Dt st yj jsynjsit, Xfshmt -inot Wnhtyj-, ujwt ufwéhjrj vzj ytit qt vzj
inhjx jx inxufwfyj; vzj, ¿vznés yj mfgíf ij ifw f yn ísxzqfx vzj
ltgjwsfxjx? ¿Kfqyfgfs mtrgwjx js jq rzsit ráx mágnqjx ufwf ltgjwsfitwjx vzj
yú jwjx? Hfqqf, Xfshmt, d azjqaj js yn, d rnwf xn vznjwjx ajsnw htsrnlt,
htrt yj mj inhmt, f fdzifwrj f xfhfw jq yjxtwt vzj ijoé jxhtsinit; vzj js
ajwifi vzj jx yfsyt, vzj xj uzjij qqfrfw yjxtwt, d yj ifwé hts vzj anafx,
htrt yj mj inhmt.

-Df yj mj inhmt, Wnhtyj -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj st vznjwt; htsyésyfyj vzj utw
rí st xjwáx ijxhzgnjwyt, d uwtxnlzj js gzjsf mtwf yz hfrnst, d iéofrj
xjlznw jq rít; vzj dt xé vzj qt gnjs lfsfit xj unjwij, d qt rfqt, jqqt d xz
izjñt.

-St vznjwt utwknfw, Xfshmt -inot Wnhtyj-, ujwt inrj: ¿mfqqáxyjyj js szjxywt
qzlfw, hzfsit xj ufwynó iéq rn rzojw, rn mnof d rn hzñfit?

-Xí mfqqé -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d xéyj ijhnw vzj xfqnó yz mnof yfs mjwrtxf
vzj xfqnjwts f ajwqf hzfsytx mfgíf js jq uzjgqt, d ytitx ijhífs vzj jwf qf
ráx gjqqf hwnfyzwf ijq rzsit. Ngf qqtwfsit d fgwfefgf f ytifx xzx frnlfx d
htsthnifx, d f hzfsytx qqjlfgfs f ajwqf, d f ytitx ujiíf qf jshtrjsifxjs f
Intx d f Szjxywf Xjñtwf xz rfiwj; d jxyt, hts yfsyt xjsynrnjsyt, vzj f rí
rj mnet qqtwfw, vzj st xzjqt xjw rzd qqtwós. D f kjj vzj rzhmtx yzanjwts
ijxjt ij jxhtsijwqf d xfqnw f vznyáwxjqf js jq hfrnst; ujwt jq rnjit ij nw
htsywf jq rfsifit ijq wjd qtx ijyzat. Uwnshnufqrjsyj xj rtxywó ráx
fufxntsfit its Ujiwt Lwjltwnt, fvzjq rfshjgt rfdtwfelt wnht vzj yú htsthjx,
vzj inhjs vzj qf vzjwíf rzhmt, d ijxuzéx vzj jqqf xj ufwynó, szshf ráx éq
mf ufwjhnit js szjxywt qzlfw, d ytitx ujsxfrtx vzj ngf ywfx jqqf ufwf
wtgfwqf; ujwt mfxyf fmtwf st xj mf xfgnit sfif.

-Xnjruwj yzaj dt rfqf xtxujhmf -inot Wnhtyj- ij vzj jxj hfgfqqjwt fifrfgf f
rn mnof; ujwt, knfit js jq afqtw ij rn Wnhtyf, szshf rj int ujxfizrgwj jq
xfgjw vzj qf vzjwíf gnjs; vzj df mfgwáx tíit ijhnw, Xfshmt, vzj qfx
rtwnxhfx uthfx t snslzsf aje xj rjehqfwts utw frtwjx hts hwnxynfstx anjotx,
d rn mnof, vzj, f qt vzj dt hwjt, fyjsiíf f xjw ráx hwnxynfsf vzj
jsfrtwfif, st xj hzwfwíf ij qfx xtqnhnyzijx ij jxj xjñtw rfdtwfelt.

-Intx qt mflf -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, vzj f jsywfrgtx qjx jxyfwíf rfq. D iéofrj
ufwynw ij fvzí, Wnhtyj frnlt, vzj vznjwt qqjlfw jxyf sthmj fitsij jxyá rn
xjñtw its Vznotyj.

-Intx afdf htsynlt, Xfshmt mjwrfst, vzj df rnx htrufñjwtx xj wjgzqqjs, d
yfrgnés jx mtwf vzj uwtxnlfrtx szjxywt hfrnst.

D qzjlt xj fgwfefwts qtx itx, d Xfshmt xzgnó js xz wzhnt, d Wnhtyj xj
fwwnró f xz gtwiós, d xj fufwyfwts.





Hfuíyzqt QA. Ij htxfx xzhjinifx f Xfshmt js jq hfrnst, d tywfx vzj st mfd
ráx vzj ajw


Jq mfgjwxj ijyjsnit Xfshmt hts Wnhtyj st qj int qzlfw f vzj fvzjq iíf
qqjlfxj fq hfxynqqt ijq izvzj, uzjxyt vzj qqjló rjinf qjlzf iéq, itsij qj
ytró qf sthmj, fqlt jxhzwf d hjwwfif; ujwt, htrt jwf ajwfst, st qj int
rzhmf ujxfizrgwj; d fxí, xj fufwyó ijq hfrnst hts nsyjshnós ij jxujwfw qf
rfñfsf; d vznxt xz htwyf d ijxajsyzwfif xzjwyj vzj, gzxhfsit qzlfw itsij
rjotw fhtrtifwxj, hfdjwts éq d jq wzhnt js zsf mtsif d jxhzwíxnrf xnrf vzj
jsywj zstx jinknhntx rzd fsynlztx jxyfgf, d fq ynjrut ijq hfjw, xj
jshtrjsió f Intx ij ytit htwfeós, ujsxfsit vzj st mfgíf ij ufwfw mfxyf jq
uwtkzsit ij qtx fgnxrtx. D st kzj fxí, utwvzj f utht ráx ij ywjx jxyfitx
int ktsit jq wzhnt, d éq xj mfqqó jshnrf iéq, xns mfgjw wjhjgnit qnxnós sn
ifñt fqlzst.

Yjsyóxj ytit jq hzjwut, d wjhtlnó jq fqnjsyt, utw ajw xn jxyfgf xfst t
flzojwjfit utw fqlzsf ufwyj; d, anésitxj gzjst, jsyjwt d hfyóqnht ij xfqzi,
st xj mfwyfgf ij ifw lwfhnfx f Intx Szjxywt Xjñtw ij qf rjwhji vzj qj mfgíf
mjhmt, utwvzj xns izif ujsxó vzj jxyfgf mjhmt rnq ujifetx. Yjsyó fxnrnxrt
hts qfx rfstx utw qfx ufwjijx ij qf xnrf, utw ajw xn xjwíf utxngqj xfqnw
ijqqf xns fdzif ij sfinj; ujwt ytifx qfx mfqqó wfxfx d xns fxnijwt fqlzst,
ij qt vzj Xfshmt xj htsltoó rzhmt, jxujhnfqrjsyj hzfsit tdó vzj jq wzhnt xj
vzjofgf ynjwsf d itqtwtxfrjsyj; d st jwf rzhmt, sn xj qfrjsyfgf ij anhnt,
vzj, f qf ajwifi, st jxyfgf rzd gnjs ufwfit.

-¡Fd -inot jsytshjx Xfshmt Ufsef-, d hzás st ujsxfitx xzhjxtx xzjqjs
xzhjijw f hfif ufxt f qtx vzj anajs js jxyj rnxjwfgqj rzsit! ¿Vznés inojwf
vzj jq vzj fdjw xj ant jsywtsnefit ltgjwsfitw ij zsf ísxzqf, rfsifsit f xzx
xnwanjsyjx d f xzx afxfqqtx, mtd xj mfgíf ij ajw xjuzqyfit js zsf xnrf, xns
mfgjw ujwxtsf fqlzsf vzj qj wjrjinj, sn hwnfit sn afxfqqt vzj fhzif f xz
xthtwwt? Fvzí mfgwjrtx ij ujwjhjw ij mfrgwj dt d rn ozrjsyt, xn df st stx
rtwnrtx fsyjx, éq ij rtqnit d vzjgwfsyfit, d dt ij ujxfwtxt. F qt rjstx, st
xjwé dt yfs ajsyzwtxt htrt qt kzj rn xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf hzfsit
ijhjsinó d gfoó f qf hzjaf ij fvzjq jshfsyfit Rtsyjxnstx, itsij mfqqó vznjs
qj wjlfqfxj rjotw vzj js xz hfxf, vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj xj kzj f rjxf
uzjxyf d f hfrf mjhmf. Fqqí ant éq anxntsjx mjwrtxfx d fufhngqjx, d dt ajwé
fvzí, f qt vzj hwjt, xfutx d hzqjgwfx. ¡Ijxinhmfit ij rí, d js vzé mfs
ufwfit rnx qthzwfx d kfsyfxífx! Ij fvzí xfhfwás rnx mzjxtx, hzfsit jq hnjqt
xjf xjwanit vzj rj ijxhzgwfs, rtsitx, gqfshtx d wfíitx, d qtx ij rn gzjs
wzhnt hts jqqtx, utw itsij vzneá xj jhmfwá ij ajw vznés xtrtx, f qt rjstx
ij qtx vzj yzanjwjs stynhnf vzj szshf Xfshmt Ufsef xj fufwyó ij xz fxst, sn
xz fxst ij Xfshmt Ufsef. Tywf aje inlt: ¡rnxjwfgqjx ij stxtywtx, vzj st mf
vzjwnit szjxywf htwyf xzjwyj vzj rzwnéxjrtx js szjxywf ufywnf d jsywj qtx
szjxywtx, itsij df vzj st mfqqfwf wjrjint szjxywf ijxlwfhnf, st kfqyfwf
vznjs ijqqt xj itqnjwf, d js qf mtwf úqynrf ij szjxywt ufxfrnjsyt stx
hjwwfwf qtx totx! ¡Tm htrufñjwt d frnlt rít, vzé rfq uflt yj mj ifit ij yzx
gzjstx xjwanhntx! Ujwiósfrj d unij f qf ktwyzsf, js jq rjotw rtit vzj
xzunjwjx, vzj stx xfvzj ijxyj rnxjwfgqj ywfgfot js vzj jxyfrtx uzjxytx qtx
itx; vzj dt uwtrjyt ij utsjwyj zsf htwtsf ij qfzwjq js qf hfgjef, vzj st
ufwjehfx xnst zs qfzwjfit utjyf, d ij ifwyj qtx unjsxtx itgqfitx.

Ijxyf rfsjwf xj qfrjsyfgf Xfshmt Ufsef, d xz ozrjsyt qj jxhzhmfgf xns
wjxutsijwqj ufqfgwf fqlzsf: yfq jwf jq fuwnjyt d fslzxynf js vzj jq utgwj
xj mfqqfgf. Knsfqrjsyj, mfgnjsit ufxfit ytif fvzjqqf sthmj js rnxjwfgqjx
vzjofx d qfrjsyfhntsjx, anst jq iíf, hts hzdf hqfwnifi d wjxuqfsitw ant
Xfshmt vzj jwf nrutxngqj ij ytif nrutxngnqnifi xfqnw ij fvzjq utet xns xjw
fdzifit, d htrjseó f qfrjsyfwxj d ifw athjx, utw ajw xn fqlzst qj tíf; ujwt
ytifx xzx athjx jwfs ififx js ijxnjwyt, uzjx utw ytitx fvzjqqtx htsytwstx
st mfgíf ujwxtsf vzj uzinjxj jxhzhmfwqj, d jsytshjx xj fhfgó ij ifw utw
rzjwyt.

Jxyfgf jq wzhnt gthf fwwngf, d Xfshmt Ufsef qj fhtrtió ij rtit vzj qj uzxt
js unj, vzj fujsfx xj utiíf yjsjw; d, xfhfsit ij qfx fqktwofx, vzj yfrgnés
mfgífs htwwnit qf rjxrf ktwyzsf ij qf hfíif, zs ujifet ij ufs, qt int f xz
ozrjsyt, vzj st qj xzut rfq, d iíotqj Xfshmt, htrt xn qt jsyjsinjwf:

-Ytitx qtx izjqtx hts ufs xts gzjstx.

Js jxyt, ijxhzgwnó f zs qfit ij qf xnrf zs flzojwt, hfufe ij hfgjw utw éq
zsf ujwxtsf, xn xj fltgnfgf d jshtlíf. Fhzinó f éq Xfshmt Ufsef, d,
flfefuásitxj, xj jsywó utw éq d ant vzj utw ij ijsywt jwf jxufhntxt d
qfwlt, d uúitqt ajw, utwvzj utw qt vzj xj utiíf qqfrfw yjhmt jsywfgf zs
wfdt ij xtq vzj qt ijxhzgwíf ytit. Ant yfrgnés vzj xj inqfyfgf d fqfwlfgf
utw tywf htshfanifi jxufhntxf; anjsit qt hzfq, atqanó f xfqnw fitsij jxyfgf
jq ozrjsyt, d hts zsf unjiwf htrjseó f ijxrtwtsfw qf ynjwwf ijq flzojwt, ij
rtit vzj js utht jxufhnt mnet qzlfw itsij hts kfhnqnifi uzinjxj jsywfw jq
fxst, htrt qt mnet; d, htlnésitqj ijq hfgjxywt, htrjseó f hfrnsfw utw
fvzjqqf lwzyf fijqfsyj, utw ajw xn mfqqfgf fqlzsf xfqnif utw tywf ufwyj. F
ajhjx ngf f jxhzwfx, d f ajhjx xns qze, ujwt snslzsf aje xns rnjit.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx ytitutijwtxt! -ijhíf jsywj xí-. Jxyf vzj ufwf rí jx
ijxajsyzwf, rjotw kzjwf ufwf fajsyzwf ij rn frt its Vznotyj. Éq xí vzj
yzanjwf jxyfx uwtkzsinifijx d rfertwwfx utw ofwinsjx kqtwnitx d utw
ufqfhntx ij Lfqnfsf, d jxujwfwf xfqnw ij jxyf jxhzwnifi d jxywjhmjef f
fqlús kqtwnit uwfit; ujwt dt, xns ajsyzwf, kfqyt ij htsxjot d rjstxhfgfit
ij ásnrt, f hfif ufxt unjsxt vzj ijgfot ij qtx unjx ij nruwtanxt xj mf ij
fgwnw tywf xnrf ráx uwtkzsif vzj qf tywf, vzj fhfgj ij ywflfwrj. ¡Gnjs
ajslfx rfq, xn anjsjx xtqt!

Ijxyf rfsjwf d hts jxytx ujsxfrnjsytx qj ufwjhnó vzj mfgwíf hfrnsfit utht
ráx ij rjinf qjlzf, fq hfgt ij qf hzfq ijxhzgwnó zsf htskzxf hqfwnifi, vzj
ufwjhnó xjw df ij iíf, d vzj utw fqlzsf ufwyj jsywfgf, vzj ifgf nsinhnt ij
yjsjw kns fgnjwyt fvzjq, ufwf éq, hfrnst ij qf tywf anif.

Fvzí qj ijof Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, d azjqaj f ywfyfw ij its Vznotyj,
vzj, fqgtwtefit d htsyjsyt, jxujwfgf jq uqfet ij qf gfyfqqf vzj mfgíf ij
mfhjw hts jq wtgfitw ij qf mtswf ij qf mnof ij itñf Wtiwílzje, f vznjs
ujsxfgf jsijwjefw jq yzjwyt d ijxflznxfit vzj rfqfrjsyj qj yjsífs kjhmt.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, xfqnésitxj zsf rfñfsf f nrutsjwxj d jsxfdfwxj js qt vzj
mfgíf ij mfhjw js jq ywfshj js vzj tywt iíf ujsxfgf ajwxj, ifsit zs wjujqós
t fwwjrjynif f Wthnsfsyj, qqjló f utsjw qtx unjx yfs ozsyt f zsf hzjaf,
vzj, f st ynwfwqj kzjwyjrjsyj qfx wnjsifx, kzjwf nrutxngqj st hfjw js jqqf.
Js kns, qj ijyzat d st hfdó, d, qqjlásitxj fqlt ráx hjwhf, xns fujfwxj,
rnwó fvzjqqf mtsizwf; d, jxyásitqf rnwfsit, tdó lwfsijx athjx ijsywt; d,
jxhzhmfsit fyjsyfrjsyj, uzit ujwhjgnw d jsyjsijw vzj jq vzj qfx ifgf ijhíf:

-¡Fm ij fwwngf! ¿Mfd fqlús hwnxynfst vzj rj jxhzhmj, t fqlús hfgfqqjwt
hfwnyfynat vzj xj izjqf ij zs ujhfitw jsyjwwfit js anif, t zs ijxinhmfit
ijxltgjwsfit ltgjwsfitw?

Ufwjhnóqj f its Vznotyj vzj tíf qf ate ij Xfshmt Ufsef, ij vzj vzjió
xzxujsxt d fxtrgwfit, d, qjafsyfsit qf ate ytit qt vzj uzit, inot:

-¿Vznés jxyá fqqá gfot? ¿Vznés xj vzjof?

-¿Vznés uzjij jxyfw fvzí, t vznés xj mf ij vzjofw -wjxutsinjwts-, xnst jq
fxjsijwjfit ij Xfshmt Ufsef, ltgjwsfitw, utw xzx ujhfitx d utw xz rfqf
fsifsef, ij qf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf, jxhzijwt vzj kzj ijq kfrtxt hfgfqqjwt its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf?

Tdjsit qt hzfq its Vznotyj, xj qj itgqó qf firnwfhnós d xj qj fhwjhjsyó jq
ufxrt, ansnésitxjqj fq ujsxfrnjsyt vzj Xfshmt Ufsef ijgíf ij xjw rzjwyt, d
vzj jxyfgf fqqí ujsfsit xz fqrf, d qqjafit ijxyf nrflnsfhnós inot:

-Htsoúwtyj utw ytit fvzjqqt vzj uzjit htsozwfwyj htrt hfyóqnht hwnxynfst,
vzj rj inlfx vznés jwjx; d xn jwjx fqrf js ujsf, inrj vzé vznjwjx vzj mflf
utw yn; vzj, uzjx jx rn uwtkjxnós kfatwjhjw d fhtwwjw f qtx sjhjxnyfitx
ijxyj rzsit, yfrgnés qt xjwé ufwf fhtwwjw d fdzifw f qtx rjsjxyjwtxtx ijq
tywt rzsit, vzj st uzjijs fdzifwxj utw xí uwtuntx.

-Ijxf rfsjwf -wjxutsinjwts-, azjxywf rjwhji vzj rj mfgqf ijgj ij xjw rn
xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, d fzs js jq ówlfst ij qf ate st jx tywt,
xns izif.

-Its Vznotyj xtd -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, jq vzj uwtkjxt xthtwwjw d fdzifw js
xzx sjhjxnifijx f qtx anatx d f qtx rzjwytx. Utw jxt inrj vznés jwjx, vzj
rj ynjsjx fyósnyt; utwvzj xn jwjx rn jxhzijwt Xfshmt Ufsef, d yj mfx
rzjwyt, htrt st yj mfdfs qqjafit qtx infgqtx, d, utw qf rnxjwnhtwinf ij
Intx, jxyéx js jq uzwlfytwnt, xzkwflntx ynjsj szjxywf Xfsyf Rfiwj qf
Nlqjxnf Hfyóqnhf Wtrfsf gfxyfsyjx f xfhfwyj ij qfx ujsfx js vzj jxyáx, d
dt, vzj qt xtqnhnyfwé hts jqqf, utw rn ufwyj, hts hzfsyt rn mfhnjsif
fqhfsefwj; utw jxt, fhfgf ij ijhqfwfwyj d inrj vznés jwjx.

-¡Atyt f yfq! -wjxutsinjwts-, d utw jq sfhnrnjsyt ij vznjs azjxf rjwhji
vznxnjwj, ozwt, xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, vzj dt xtd xz jxhzijwt
Xfshmt Ufsef, d vzj szshf rj mj rzjwyt js ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif; xnst
vzj, mfgnjsit ijofit rn ltgnjwst utw htxfx d hfzxfx vzj jx rjsjxyjw ráx
jxufhnt ufwf ijhnwqfx, fsthmj hfí js jxyf xnrf itsij dflt, jq wzhnt
htsrnlt, vzj st rj ijofwá rjsynw, uzjx, utw ráx xjñfx, jxyá fvzí htsrnlt.

D mfd ráx: vzj st ufwjhj xnst vzj jq ozrjsyt jsyjsinó qt vzj Xfshmt inot,
utwvzj fq rtrjsyt htrjseó f wjgzesfw, yfs wjhnt, vzj ytif qf hzjaf
wjyzrgfgf.

-¡Kfrtxt yjxynlt! -inot its Vznotyj-. Jq wjgzest htsteht htrt xn qj
ufwnjwf, d yz ate tnlt, Xfshmt rít. Jxuéwfrj; nwé fq hfxynqqt ijq izvzj,
vzj jxyá fvzí hjwhf, d ywfjwé vznjs yj xfvzj ijxyf xnrf, itsij yzx ujhfitx
yj ijgjs ij mfgjw uzjxyt.

-Afdf azjxf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt-, d azjqaf uwjxyt, utw zs xtqt Intx, vzj df
st qt uzjit qqjafw jq jxyfw fvzí xjuzqyfit js anif, d rj jxytd rzwnjsit ij
rnjit.

Ijoóqj its Vznotyj, d kzj fq hfxynqqt f htsyfw f qtx izvzjx jq xzhjxt ij
Xfshmt Ufsef, ij vzj st utht xj rfwfanqqfwts, fzsvzj gnjs jsyjsinjwts vzj
ijgíf ij mfgjw hfíit utw qf htwwjxutsijshnf ij fvzjqqf lwzyf vzj ij ynjrutx
nsrjrtwnfqjx jxyfgf fqqí mjhmf; ujwt st utiífs ujsxfw hórt mfgíf ijofit jq
ltgnjwst xns yjsjw jqqtx fanxt ij xz ajsnif. Knsfqrjsyj, htrt inhjs,
qqjafwts xtlfx d rfwtrfx; d, f htxyf ij rzhmf ljsyj d ij rzhmt ywfgfot,
xfhfwts fq wzhnt d f Xfshmt Ufsef ij fvzjqqfx ynsnjgqfx f qf qze ijq xtq.
Antqj zs jxyzinfsyj, d inot:

-Ijxyf rfsjwf mfgífs ij xfqnw ij xzx ltgnjwstx ytitx qtx rfqtx
ltgjwsfitwjx, htrt xfqj jxyj ujhfitw ijq uwtkzsit ijq fgnxrt: rzjwyt ij
mfrgwj, ijxhtqtwnit, d xns gqfshf, f qt vzj dt hwjt.

Tdóqt Xfshmt, d inot:

-Thmt iífx t inje mf, mjwrfst rzwrzwfitw, vzj jsywé f ltgjwsfw qf ísxzqf
vzj rj injwts, js qtx hzfqjx st rj an mfwyt ij ufs xnvznjwf zs mtwf; js
jqqtx rj mfs ujwxjlznit réinhtx, d jsjrnltx rj mfs gwzrfit qtx lüjxtx; sn
mj yjsnit qzlfw ij mfhjw htmjhmtx, sn ij htgwfw ijwjhmtx; d, xnjsit jxyt
fxí, htrt qt jx, st rjwjhíf dt, f rn ufwjhjw, xfqnw ij jxyf rfsjwf; ujwt jq
mtrgwj utsj d Intx inxutsj, d Intx xfgj qt rjotw d qt vzj qj jxyá gnjs f
hfif zst; d hzfq jq ynjrut, yfq jq ynjsyt; d sfinj inlf "ijxyf flzf st
gjgjwé", vzj fitsij xj unjsxf vzj mfd ythnstx, st mfd jxyfhfx; d Intx rj
jsynjsij, d gfxyf, d st inlt ráx, fzsvzj uzinjwf.

-St yj jstojx, Xfshmt, sn wjhngfx ujxfizrgwj ij qt vzj tdjwjx, vzj xjwá
szshf fhfgfw: ajs yú hts xjlzwf htshnjshnf, d inlfs qt vzj inojwjs; d jx
vzjwjw fyfw qfx qjslzfx ij qtx rfqinhnjsyjx qt rjxrt vzj vzjwjw utsjw
uzjwyfx fq hfrut. Xn jq ltgjwsfitw xfqj wnht ij xz ltgnjwst, inhjs iéq vzj
mf xnit zs qfiwós, d xn xfqj utgwj, vzj mf xnit zs ufwf utht d zs
rjsyjhfyt.

-F gzjs xjlzwt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj utw jxyf aje fsyjx rj mfs ij yjsjw
utw ytsyt vzj utw qfiwós.

Js jxyfx uqáynhfx qqjlfwts, wtijfitx ij rzhmfhmtx d ij tywf rzhmf ljsyj, fq
hfxynqqt, fitsij js zstx htwwjitwjx jxyfgfs df jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf
jxujwfsit f its Vznotyj d f Xfshmt, jq hzfq st vznxt xzgnw f ajw fq izvzj
xns vzj uwnrjwt st mzgnjxj fhtrtifit fq wzhnt js qf hfgfqqjwnef, utwvzj
ijhíf vzj mfgíf ufxfit rzd rfqf sthmj js qf utxfif; d qzjlt xzgnó f ajw f
xzx xjñtwjx, fsyj qtx hzfqjx, uzjxyt ij wtinqqfx, inot:

-Dt, xjñtwjx, utwvzj qt vznxt fxí azjxywf lwfsijef, xns snslús rjwjhnrnjsyt
rít, kzn f ltgjwsfw azjxywf ísxzqf Gfwfyfwnf, js qf hzfq jsywé ijxszit, d
ijxszit rj mfqqt: sn unjwit, sn lfst. Xn mj ltgjwsfit gnjs t rfq, yjxynltx
mj yjsnit ijqfsyj, vzj inwás qt vzj vznxnjwjs. Mj ijhqfwfit izifx,
xjsyjshnfit uqjnytx, xnjruwj rzjwyt ij mfrgwj, utw mfgjwqt vzjwnit fxí jq
ithytw Ujiwt Wjhnt, sfyzwfq ij Ynwyjfkzjwf, réinht nsxzqfst d
ltgjwsfitwjxht. Fhtrjynéwtsstx jsjrnltx ij sthmj, d, mfgnésitstx uzjxyt js
lwfsij fuwnjyt, inhjs qtx ij qf ísxzqf vzj xfqnjwts qngwjx d hts anytwnf
utw jq afqtw ij rn gwfet, vzj yfq xfqzi qjx ié Intx htrt jqqtx inhjs
ajwifi. Js wjxtqzhnós, js jxyj ynjrut dt mj yfsyjfit qfx hfwlfx vzj ywfj
htsxnlt, d qfx tgqnlfhntsjx, jq ltgjwsfw, d mj mfqqfit utw rn hzjsyf vzj st
qfx utiwás qqjafw rnx mtrgwtx, sn xts ujxt ij rnx htxynqqfx, sn kqjhmfx ij
rn fqofgf; d fxí, fsyjx vzj injxj htsrnlt fq ywfaéx jq ltgnjwst, mj vzjwnit
dt ifw hts jq ltgnjwst fq ywfaéx, d fdjw ij rfñfsf ijoé qf ísxzqf htrt qf
mfqqé: hts qfx rnxrfx hfqqjx, hfxfx d yjofitx vzj yjsíf hzfsit jsywé js
jqqf. St mj ujinit uwjxyfit f sfinj, sn rjyíitrj js lwfsojwífx; d, fzsvzj
ujsxfgf mfhjw fqlzsfx twijsfsefx uwtajhmtxfx, st mnhj snslzsf, yjrjwtxt vzj
st xj mfgífs ij lzfwifw: vzj jx qt rjxrt mfhjwqfx vzj st mfhjwqfx. Xfqí,
htrt inlt, ij qf ísxzqf xns tywt fhtrufñfrnjsyt vzj jq ij rn wzhnt; hfí js
zsf xnrf, aísjrj utw jqqf fijqfsyj, mfxyf vzj, jxyf rfñfsf, hts qf qze ijq
xtq, an qf xfqnif, ujwt st yfs káhnq vzj, f st ijufwfwrj jq hnjqt f rn
xjñtw its Vznotyj, fqqí rj vzjifwf mfxyf qf kns ijq rzsit. Fxí vzj, rnx
xjñtwjx izvzj d izvzjxf, fvzí jxyá azjxywt ltgjwsfitw Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj mf
lwfsojfit js xtqtx inje iífx vzj mf yjsnit jq ltgnjwst f htsthjw vzj st xj
qj mf ij ifw sfif utw xjw ltgjwsfitw, st vzj ij zsf ísxzqf, xnst ij ytit jq
rzsit; d, hts jxyj uwjxzuzjxyt, gjxfsit f azjxywfx rjwhjijx qtx unjx,
nrnyfsit fq ozjlt ij qtx rzhmfhmtx, vzj inhjs "Xfqyf yú, d iárjqf yú", itd
zs xfqyt ijq ltgnjwst, d rj ufxt fq xjwanhnt ij rn xjñtw its Vznotyj; vzj,
js kns, js éq, fzsvzj htrt jq ufs hts xtgwjxfqyt, máwytrj, f qt rjstx, d
ufwf rí, htrt dt jxyé mfwyt, jxt rj mfhj vzj xjf ij efsfmtwnfx vzj ij
ujwinhjx.

Hts jxyt int kns f xz qfwlf uqáynhf Xfshmt, yjrnjsit xnjruwj its Vznotyj
vzj mfgíf ij ijhnw js jqqf rnqqfwjx ij inxufwfyjx; d, hzfsit qj ant fhfgfw
hts yfs uthtx, int js xz htwfeós lwfhnfx fq hnjqt, d jq izvzj fgwfeó f
Xfshmt, d qj inot vzj qj ujxfgf js jq fqrf ij vzj mzgnjxj ijofit yfs uwjxyt
jq ltgnjwst; ujwt vzj éq mfwíf ij xzjwyj vzj xj qj injxj js xz jxyfit tywt
tknhnt ij rjstx hfwlf d ij ráx uwtajhmt. Fgwfeóqj qf izvzjxf fxnrnxrt, d
rfsió vzj qj wjlfqfxjs, utwvzj ifgf xjñfqjx ij ajsnw rfq rtqnit d ujtw
ufwfit.





Hfuíyzqt QAN. Ij qf ijxhtrzsfq d szshf anxyf gfyfqqf vzj ufxó jsywj its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf d jq qfhfdt Ytxnqtx, js qf ijkjsxf ij qf mnof ij qf
izjñf itñf Wtiwílzje


St vzjifwts fwwjujsynitx qtx izvzjx ij qf gzwqf mjhmf f Xfshmt Ufsef ijq
ltgnjwst vzj qj injwts; d ráx, vzj fvzjq rnxrt iíf anst xz rfdtwitrt, d qjx
htsyó uzsyt utw uzsyt, ytifx hfxn, qfx ufqfgwfx d fhhntsjx vzj Xfshmt mfgíf
inhmt d mjhmt js fvzjqqtx iífx, d knsfqrjsyj qjx jshfwjhnó jq fxfqyt ij qf
ísxzqf, d jq rnjit ij Xfshmt, d xz xfqnif, ij vzj st ujvzjñt lzxyt
wjhngnjwts.

Ijxuzéx ijxyt, hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf vzj xj qqjló jq iíf ij qf gfyfqqf
fuqfefif, d, mfgnjsit jq izvzj zsf d rzd rzhmfx ajhjx fiajwynit f xz qfhfdt
Ytxnqtx hórt xj mfgíf ij fajsnw hts its Vznotyj ufwf ajshjwqj xns rfyfwqj
sn mjwnwqj, twijsó vzj xj vznyfxjs qtx mnjwwtx f qfx qfsefx, inhnjsit f its
Vznotyj vzj st ujwrnyíf qf hwnxynfsifi, ij vzj éq xj uwjhnfgf, vzj fvzjqqf
gfyfqqf kzjxj hts yfsyt wnjxlt d ujqnlwt ij qfx anifx, d vzj xj htsyjsyfxj
hts vzj qj ifgf hfrut kwfsht js xz ynjwwf, uzjxyt vzj ngf htsywf jq ijhwjyt
ijq Xfsyt Htshnqnt, vzj uwtmígj qtx yfqjx ijxfkítx, d st vznxnjxj qqjafw
utw ytit wnltw fvzjq ywfshj yfs kzjwyj.

Its Vznotyj inot vzj Xz Jchjqjshnf inxuzxnjxj qfx htxfx ij fvzjq sjlthnt
htrt ráx kzjxj xjwanit; vzj éq qj tgjijhjwíf js ytit. Qqjlfit, uzjx, jq
yjrjwtxt iíf, d mfgnjsit rfsifit jq izvzj vzj ijqfsyj ij qf uqfef ijq
hfxynqqt xj mnhnjxj zs jxufhntxt hfifmfqxt, itsij jxyzanjxjs qtx ozjhjx ijq
hfrut d qfx izjñfx, rfiwj d mnof, ijrfsifsyjx, mfgíf fhzinit ij ytitx qtx
qzlfwjx d fqijfx hnwhzsajhnsfx nsknsnyf ljsyj, f ajw qf stajifi ij fvzjqqf
gfyfqqf; vzj szshf tywf yfq st mfgífs anxyt, sn tíit ijhnw js fvzjqqf
ynjwwf qtx vzj anaífs sn qtx vzj mfgífs rzjwyt.

Jq uwnrjwt vzj jsywó js jq hfrut d jxyfhfif kzj jq rfjxywt ij qfx
hjwjrtsnfx, vzj yfsyjó jq hfrut, d qj ufxjó ytit, utwvzj js éq st mzgnjxj
fqlús jslfñt, sn htxf jshzgnjwyf itsij xj ywtujefxj d hfdjxj; qzjlt
jsywfwts qfx izjñfx d xj xjsyfwts js xzx fxnjsytx, hzgnjwyfx hts qtx rfsytx
mfxyf qtx totx d fzs mfxyf qtx ujhmtx, hts rzjxywfx ij st ujvzjñt
xjsynrnjsyt. Uwjxjsyj its Vznotyj js qf jxyfhfif, ij fqqí f utht,
fhtrufñfit ij rzhmfx ywtrujyfx, fxtró utw zsf ufwyj ij qf uqfef, xtgwj zs
utijwtxt hfgfqqt, mzsinésitqf ytif, jq lwfsij qfhfdt Ytxnqtx, hfqfif qf
anxjwf d ytit jshfrgwtsfit, hts zsfx kzjwyjx d qzhnjsyjx fwrfx. Jq hfgfqqt
rtxywfgf xjw kwnxós, fshmt d ij htqtw ytwinqqt; ij hfif rfst d unj qj
ujsiíf zsf fwwtgf ij qfsf.

Ajsíf jq afqjwtxt htrgfynjsyj gnjs nsktwrfit ijq izvzj xz xjñtw ij hórt xj
mfgíf ij utwyfw hts jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, fiajwynit vzj js
snslzsf rfsjwf qj rfyfxj, xnst vzj uwthzwfxj mznw jq uwnrjw jshzjsywt utw
jxhzxfw jq ujqnlwt ij xz rzjwyj, vzj jxyfgf hnjwyt xn ij qqjst js qqjst qj
jshtsywfxj. Ufxjó qf uqfef, d, qqjlfsit itsij qfx izjñfx jxyfgfs, xj uzxt
fqlús yfsyt f rnwfw f qf vzj utw jxutxt qj ujiíf. Qqfró jq rfjxj ij hfrut f
its Vznotyj, vzj df xj mfgíf uwjxjsyfit js qf uqfef, d ozsyt hts Ytxnqtx
mfgqó f qfx izjñfx, uwjlzsyásitqjx xn htsxjsyífs vzj atqanjxj utw xz
ijwjhmt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf. Jqqfx inojwts vzj xí, d vzj ytit qt vzj
js fvzjq hfxt mnhnjxj qt ifgfs utw gnjs mjhmt, utw knwrj d utw afqjijwt.

Df js jxyj ynjrut jxyfgfs jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf uzjxytx js zsf lfqjwíf vzj
hfíf xtgwj qf jxyfhfif, ytif qf hzfq jxyfgf htwtsfif ij nsknsnyf ljsyj, vzj
jxujwfgf ajw jq wnlzwtxt ywfshj szshf anxyt. Kzj htsinhnós ij qtx
htrgfynjsyjx vzj xn its Vznotyj ajshíf, xz htsywfwnt xj mfgíf ij hfxfw hts
qf mnof ij itñf Wtiwílzje; d xn éq kzjxj ajshnit, vzjifgf qngwj xz
htsyjsitw ij qf ufqfgwf vzj xj qj ujiíf, xns ifw tywf xfynxkfhnós fqlzsf.

Ufwynóqjx jq rfjxywt ij qfx hjwjrtsnfx jq xtq, d uzxt f qtx itx hfif zst js
jq uzjxyt itsij mfgífs ij jxyfw. Xtsfwts qtx fyfrgtwjx, qqjsó jq fnwj jq
xts ij qfx ywtrujyfx, yjrgqfgf ijgfot ij qtx unjx qf ynjwwf; jxyfgfs
xzxujsxtx qtx htwfetsjx ij qf rnwfsyj yzwgf, yjrnjsit zstx d jxujwfsit
tywtx jq gzjst t jq rfq xzhjxt ij fvzjq hfxt. Knsfqrjsyj, its Vznotyj,
jshtrjsiásitxj ij ytit xz htwfeós f Intx Szjxywt Xjñtw d f qf xjñtwf
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, jxyfgf flzfwifsit vzj xj qj injxj xjñfq uwjhnxf ij qf
fwwjrjynif; jrujwt, szjxywt qfhfdt yjsíf inkjwjsyjx ujsxfrnjsytx: st
ujsxfgf éq xnst js qt vzj fltwf inwé:

Ufwjhj xjw vzj, hzfsit jxyzat rnwfsit f xz jsjrnlf, qj ufwjhnó qf ráx
mjwrtxf rzojw vzj mfgíf anxyt js ytif xz anif, d jq snñt hjlzjezjqt, f
vznjs xzjqjs qqfrfw ij twinsfwnt Frtw utw jxfx hfqqjx, st vznxt ujwijw qf
thfxnós vzj xj qj tkwjhnó ij ywnzskfw ij zsf fqrf qfhfdzsf d utsjwqf js qf
qnxyf ij xzx ywtkjtx; d fxí, qqjlásitxj f éq gtsnyfrjsyj, xns vzj sfinj qj
anjxj, qj jsafxó fq utgwj qfhfdt zsf kqjhmf ij itx afwfx utw jq qfit
nevznjwit, d qj ufxó jq htwfeós ij ufwyj f ufwyj; d uúitqt mfhjw gnjs fq
xjlzwt, utwvzj jq Frtw jx nsanxngqj, d jsywf d xfqj utw it vznjwj, xns vzj
sfinj qj unif hzjsyf ij xzx mjhmtx.

Inlt, uzjx, vzj, hzfsit injwts qf xjñfq ij qf fwwjrjynif, jxyfgf szjxywt
qfhfdt ywfsxutwyfit, ujsxfsit js qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf vzj df mfgíf mjhmt
xjñtwf ij xz qngjwyfi, d fxí, st fyjsinó fq xts ij qf ywtrujyf, htrt mnet
its Vznotyj, vzj, fujsfx qf mzgt tíit, hzfsit fwwjrjynó, d, f ytit jq
htwwjw vzj ujwrnyíf Wthnsfsyj, ufwynó htsywf xz jsjrnlt; d, anésitqj ufwynw
xz gzjs jxhzijwt Xfshmt, inot f lwfsijx athjx:

-¡Intx yj lzíj, sfyf d kqtw ij qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx! ¡Intx yj ié qf
anytwnf, uzjx qqjafx qf wfeós ij yz ufwyj!

D, fzsvzj Ytxnqtx ant ajsnw htsywf xí f its Vznotyj, st xj rtanó zs ufxt ij
xz uzjxyt; fsyjx, hts lwfsijx athjx, qqfró fq rfjxj ij hfrut, jq hzfq
ajsnit f ajw qt vzj vzjwíf, qj inot:

-Xjñtw, ¿jxyf gfyfqqf st xj mfhj utwvzj dt rj hfxj, t st rj hfxj, hts
fvzjqqf xjñtwf?

-Fxí jx -qj kzj wjxutsinit.

-Uzjx dt -inot jq qfhfdt- xtd yjrjwtxt ij rn htshnjshnf, d utsiwífqf js
lwfs hfwlt xn ufxfxj fijqfsyj js jxyf gfyfqqf; d fxí, inlt vzj dt rj itd
utw ajshnit d vzj vznjwt hfxfwrj qzjlt hts fvzjqqf xjñtwf.

Vzjió firnwfit jq rfjxj ij hfrut ij qfx wfetsjx ij Ytxnqtx; d, htrt jwf zst
ij qtx xfgnitwjx ij qf rávznsf ij fvzjq hfxt, st qj xzut wjxutsijw ufqfgwf.
Ijyúatxj its Vznotyj js qf rnyfi ij xz hfwwjwf, anjsit vzj xz jsjrnlt st
qj fhtrjyíf. Jq izvzj st xfgíf qf thfxnós utwvzj st xj ufxfgf fijqfsyj js
qf gfyfqqf, ujwt jq rfjxj ij hfrut qj kzj f ijhqfwfw qt vzj Ytxnqtx ijhíf,
ij qt vzj vzjió xzxujsxt d htqéwnht js jxywjrt.

Js yfsyt vzj jxyt ufxfgf, Ytxnqtx xj qqjló fitsij itñf Wtiwílzje jxyfgf, d
inot f lwfsijx athjx:

-Dt, xjñtwf, vznjwt hfxfwrj hts azjxywf mnof, d st vznjwt fqhfsefw utw
uqjnytx sn htsynjsifx qt vzj uzjit fqhfsefw utw ufe d xns ujqnlwt ij qf
rzjwyj.

Tdó jxyt jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj, d inot:

-Uzjx jxyt fxí jx, dt vzjit qngwj d xzjqyt ij rn uwtrjxf: háxjsxj js mtwf
gzjsf, d, uzjx Intx Szjxywt Xjñtw xj qf int, Xfs Ujiwt xj qf gjsinlf.

Jq izvzj mfgíf gfofit f qf uqfef ijq hfxynqqt, d, qqjlásitxj f Ytxnqtx, qj
inot:

-¿Jx ajwifi, hfgfqqjwt, vzj tx ifnx utw ajshnit, d vzj, nsxynlfit ij
azjxywf yjrjwtxf htshnjshnf, tx vzjwénx hfxfw hts jxyf itshjqqf?

-Xí, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Ytxnqtx.

-Éq mfhj rzd gnjs -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt Ufsef-, utwvzj qt vzj mfx ij
ifw fq rzw, ifqt fq lfyt, d xfhfwyj mf ij hznifit.

Ígfxj Ytxnqtx ijxjsqfefsit qf hjqfif, d wtlfgf vzj fuwnjxf qj fdzifxjs,
utwvzj qj ngfs kfqyfsit qtx jxuíwnyzx ijq fqnjsyt, d st utiíf ajwxj
jshjwwfit yfsyt ynjrut js qf jxywjhmjef ij fvzjq futxjsyt. Vznyáwtsxjqf
fuwnjxf, d vzjió ijxhzgnjwyt d ufyjsyj xz wtxywt ij qfhfdt. Anjsit qt hzfq
itñf Wtiwílzje d xz mnof, ifsit lwfsijx athjx, inojwts:

-¡Éxyj jx jslfñt, jslfñt jx éxyj! ¡F Ytxnqtx, jq qfhfdt ijq izvzj rn xjñtw,
stx mfs uzjxyt js qzlfw ij rn ajwifijwt jxutxt! ¡Ozxynhnf ij Intx d ijq
Wjd, ij yfsyf rfqnhnf, utw st ijhnw gjqqfvzjwíf!

-St atx fhznyénx, xjñtwfx -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj sn éxyf jx rfqnhnf sn jx
gjqqfvzjwíf; d xn qf jx, d st mf xnit qf hfzxf jq izvzj, xnst qtx rfqtx
jshfsyfitwjx vzj rj ujwxnlzjs, qtx hzfqjx, nsanintxtx ij vzj dt fqhfsefxj
qf lqtwnf ijxyj ajshnrnjsyt, mfs htsajwynit jq wtxywt ij azjxywt jxutxt js
jq ij jxyj vzj ijhíx vzj jx qfhfdt ijq izvzj. Ytrfi rn htsxjot, d, f ujxfw
ij qf rfqnhnf ij rnx jsjrnltx, hfxftx hts éq, vzj xns izif jx jq rnxrt vzj
atx ijxjánx fqhfsefw utw jxutxt.

Jq izvzj, vzj jxyt tdó, jxyzat utw wtrujw js wnxf ytif xz hóqjwf, d inot:

-Xts yfs jcywftwinsfwnfx qfx htxfx vzj xzhjijs fq xjñtw its Vznotyj vzj
jxytd utw hwjjw vzj jxyj rn qfhfdt st qt jx; ujwt zxjrtx ijxyj fwini d
rfñf: inqfyjrtx jq hfxfrnjsyt vznshj iífx, xn vznjwjs, d yjslfrtx jshjwwfit
f jxyj ujwxtsfoj vzj stx ynjsj izitxtx, js qtx hzfqjx utiwíf xjw vzj
atqanjxj f xz uwíxynsf knlzwf; vzj st mf ij izwfw yfsyt jq wfshtw vzj qtx
jshfsyfitwjx ynjsjs fq xjñtw its Vznotyj, d ráx, désitqjx yfs utht js zxfw
jxytx jrgjqjhtx d ywfsxktwrfhntsjx.

-¡Tm xjñtw! -inot Xfshmt-, vzj df ynjsjs jxytx rfqfsiwnsjx utw zxt d
htxyzrgwj ij rzifw qfx htxfx, ij zsfx js tywfx, vzj ythfs f rn frt. Zs
hfgfqqjwt vzj ajshnó qtx iífx ufxfitx, qqfrfit jq ij qtx Jxujotx, qj
atqanjwts js qf knlzwf ijq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, sfyzwfq ij szjxywt
uzjgqt d lwfsij frnlt szjxywt, d f rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt qf mfs
azjqyt js zsf wúxynhf qfgwfitwf; d fxí, nrflnst vzj jxyj qfhfdt mf ij rtwnw
d ananw qfhfdt ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif.

F qt vzj inot qf mnof ij Wtiwílzje:

-Xéfxj vznjs kzjwj jxyj vzj rj unij utw jxutxf, vzj dt xj qt flwfijeht; vzj
ráx vznjwt xjw rzojw qjlíynrf ij zs qfhfdt vzj st frnlf d gzwqfif ij zs
hfgfqqjwt, uzjxyt vzj jq vzj f rí rj gzwqó st qt jx.

Js wjxtqzhnós, ytitx jxytx hzjsytx d xzhjxtx ufwfwts js vzj Ytxnqtx xj
wjhtlnjxj, mfxyf ajw js vzé ufwfgf xz ywfsxktwrfhnós; fhqfrfwts ytitx qf
anytwnf utw its Vznotyj, d qtx ráx vzjifwts ywnxyjx d rjqfshóqnhtx ij ajw
vzj st xj mfgífs mjhmt ujifetx qtx yfs jxujwfitx htrgfynjsyjx, gnjs fxí
htrt qtx rthmfhmtx vzjifs ywnxyjx hzfsit st xfqj jq fmtwhfit vzj jxujwfs,
utwvzj qj mf ujwitsfit, t qf ufwyj, t qf ozxynhnf. Kzjxj qf ljsyj,
atqanéwtsxj jq izvzj d its Vznotyj fq hfxynqqt, jshjwwfwts f Ytxnqtx,
vzjifwts itñf Wtiwílzje d xz mnof htsyjsyíxnrfx ij ajw vzj, utw zsf aíf t
utw tywf, fvzjq hfxt mfgíf ij ufwfw js hfxfrnjsyt, d Ytxnqtx st jxujwfgf
rjstx.





Hfuíyzqt QANN. Vzj ywfyf ij hórt its Vznotyj xj ijxuninó ijq izvzj, d ij qt
vzj qj xzhjinó hts qf inxhwjyf d ijxjsazjqyf Fqynxnitwf, itshjqqf ij qf
izvzjxf


Df qj ufwjhnó f its Vznotyj vzj jwf gnjs xfqnw ij yfsyf thntxnifi htrt qf
vzj js fvzjq hfxynqqt yjsíf; vzj xj nrflnsfgf xjw lwfsij qf kfqyf vzj xz
ujwxtsf mfhíf js ijofwxj jxyfw jshjwwfit d ujwjetxt jsywj qtx nsknsnytx
wjlfqtx d ijqjnyjx vzj htrt f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj fvzjqqtx xjñtwjx qj mfhífs,
d ufwjhífqj vzj mfgíf ij ifw hzjsyf jxywjhmf fq hnjqt ij fvzjqqf thntxnifi
d jshjwwfrnjsyt; d fxí, uninó zs iíf qnhjshnf f qtx izvzjx ufwf ufwynwxj.
Inéwtsxjqf, hts rzjxywfx ij vzj js lwfs rfsjwf qjx ujxfgf ij vzj qtx
ijofxj. Int qf izvzjxf qfx hfwyfx ij xz rzojw f Xfshmt Ufsef, jq hzfq qqtwó
hts jqqfx, d inot:

-¿Vznés ujsxfwf vzj jxujwfsefx yfs lwfsijx htrt qfx vzj js jq ujhmt ij rn
rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef jsljsiwfwts qfx szjafx ij rn ltgnjwst mfgífs ij ufwfw js
atqajwrj dt fltwf f qfx fwwfxywfifx fajsyzwfx ij rn frt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf? Hts ytit jxyt, rj htsyjsyt ij ajw vzj rn Yjwjxf htwwjxutsinó f xjw
vznjs jx, jsanfsit qfx gjqqtyfx f qf izvzjxf; vzj, f st mfgéwxjqfx jsanfit,
vzjifsit dt ujxfwtxt, rj rtxywfwf jqqf ijxflwfijhnif. Qt vzj rj htsxzjqf jx
vzj jxyf iáinaf st xj qj uzjij ifw strgwj ij htmjhmt, utwvzj df yjsíf dt jq
ltgnjwst hzfsit jqqf qfx jsanó, d jxyá uzjxyt js wfeós vzj qtx vzj wjhngjs
fqlús gjsjknhnt, fzsvzj xjf hts snñjwífx, xj rzjxywjs flwfijhnitx. Js
jkjhyt, dt jsywé ijxszit js jq ltgnjwst d xfqlt ijxszit iéq; d fxí, utiwé
ijhnw hts xjlzwf htshnjshnf, vzj st jx utht: "Ijxszit sfhí, ijxszit rj
mfqqt: sn unjwit sn lfst".

Jxyt ufxfgf jsywj xí Xfshmt jq iíf ij qf ufwynif; d, xfqnjsit its Vznotyj,
mfgnésitxj ijxujinit qf sthmj fsyjx ij qtx izvzjx, zsf rfñfsf xj uwjxjsyó
fwrfit js qf uqfef ijq hfxynqqt. Rnwágfsqj ij qtx htwwjitwjx ytif qf ljsyj
ijq hfxynqqt, d fxnrnxrt qtx izvzjx xfqnjwts f ajwqj. Jxyfgf Xfshmt xtgwj
xz wzhnt, hts xzx fqktwofx, rfqjyf d wjuzjxyt, htsyjsyíxnrt, utwvzj jq
rfdtwitrt ijq izvzj, jq vzj kzj qf Ywnkfqin, qj mfgíf ifit zs gtqxnht hts
ithnjsytx jxhzitx ij twt, ufwf xzuqnw qtx rjsjxyjwjx ijq hfrnst, d jxyt fús
st qt xfgíf its Vznotyj.

Jxyfsit, htrt vzjif inhmt, rnwásitqj ytitx, f ijxmtwf, jsywj qfx tywfx
izjñfx d itshjqqfx ij qf izvzjxf, vzj qj rnwfgfs, fqeó qf ate qf
ijxjsazjqyf d inxhwjyf Fqynxnitwf, d js xts qfxynrjwt inot:

   -Jxhzhmf, rfq hfgfqqjwt;
   ijyés zs utht qfx wnjsifx;
   st kfynlzjx qfx nofifx
   ij yz rfq wjlnif gjxynf.
   Rnwf, kfqxt, vzj st mzdfx
   ij fqlzsf xjwunjsyj knjwf,
   xnst ij zsf htwijwnqqf
   vzj jxyá rzd qjotx ij tajof.
   Yú mfx gzwqfit, rtsxywzt mtwwjsit,
   qf ráx mjwrtxf itshjqqf
   vzj Iïfsf ant js xzx rtsyjx,
   vzj Ajszx rnwó js xzx xjqafx.
   Hwzjq Anwjst, kzlnynat Jsjfx,
   Gfwwfgáx yj fhtrufñj; fqqá yj fajslfx.
   Yú qqjafx, ¡qqjafw nruít!,
   js qfx lfwwfx ij yzx hjwwfx
   qfx jsywfñfx ij zsf mzrnqij,
   htrt jsfrtwfif, ynjwsf.
   Qqéafxyj ywjx ythfitwjx,
   d zsfx qnlfx, ij zsfx unjwsfx
   vzj fq ráwrtq uzwt xj nlzfqfs
   js qnxfx, gqfshfx d sjlwfx.
   Qqéafxyj itx rnq xzxunwtx,
   vzj, f xjw ij kzjlt, uzinjwfs
   fgwfxfw f itx rnq Ywtdfx,
   xn itx rnq Ywtdfx mzgnjwf.
   Hwzjq Anwjst, kzlnynat Jsjfx,
   Gfwwfgáx yj fhtrufñj; fqqá yj fajslfx.
   Ij jxj Xfshmt, yz jxhzijwt,
   qfx jsywfñfx xjfs yfs yjwhfx
   d yfs izwfx, vzj st xfqlf
   ij xz jshfsyt Izqhnsjf.
   Ij qf hzquf vzj yú ynjsjx
   qqjaj qf ywnxyj qf ujsf;
   vzj ozxytx utw ujhfitwjx
   yfq aje uflfs js rn ynjwwf.
   Yzx ráx knsfx fajsyzwfx
   js ijxajsyzwfx xj azjqafs,
   js xzjñtx yzx ufxfynjrutx,
   js tqanitx yzx knwrjefx.
   Hwzjq Anwjst, kzlnynat Jsjfx,
   Gfwwfgáx yj fhtrufñj; fqqá yj fajslfx.
   Xjfx yjsnit utw kfqxt
   ijxij Xjanqqf f Rfwhmjsf,
   ijxij Lwfsfif mfxyf Qtof,
   ij Qtsiwjx f Nslqfyjwwf.
   Xn ozlfwjx fq wjnsfit,
   qtx hnjsytx, t qf uwnrjwf,
   qtx wjdjx mzdfs ij yn;
   fxjx sn xnjyjx st ajfx.
   Xn yj htwyfwjx qtx hfqqtx,
   xfslwj qfx mjwnifx anjwyfs,
   d vzéijsyj qtx wfnltsjx
   xn yj xfhfwjx qfx rzjqfx.
   Hwzjq Anwjst, kzlnynat Jsjfx,
   Gfwwfgáx yj fhtrufñj; fqqá yj fajslfx.

Js yfsyt vzj, ij qf xzjwyj vzj xj mf inhmt, xj vzjofgf qf qfxynrfif
Fqynxnitwf, qf jxyzat rnwfsit its Vznotyj, d, xns wjxutsijwqf ufqfgwf,
atqanjsit jq wtxywt f Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Utw jq xnlqt ij yzx ufxfitx, Xfshmt rít, yj htsozwt vzj rj inlfx zsf
ajwifi. Inrj, ¿qqjafx utw ajsyzwf qtx ywjx ythfitwjx d qfx qnlfx vzj jxyf
jsfrtwfif itshjqqf inhj?

F qt vzj Xfshmt wjxutsinó:

-Qtx ywjx ythfitwjx xí qqjat; ujwt qfx qnlfx, htrt utw qtx hjwwtx ij Úgjif.

Vzjió qf izvzjxf firnwfif ij qf ijxjsatqyzwf ij Fqynxnitwf, vzj, fzsvzj qf
yjsíf utw fywjanif, lwfhntxf d ijxjsazjqyf, st js lwfit vzj xj fywjanjwf f
xjrjofsyjx ijxjsatqyzwfx; d, htrt st jxyfgf fiajwynif ijxyf gzwqf, hwjhnó
ráx xz firnwfhnós. Jq izvzj vznxt wjktwefw jq itsfnwj, d inot:

-St rj ufwjhj gnjs, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, vzj, mfgnjsit wjhjgnit js jxyj rn
hfxynqqt jq gzjs fhtlnrnjsyt vzj js éq xj tx mf mjhmt, tx mfdánx fywjanit f
qqjafwtx ywjx ythfitwjx, utw qt rjstx, xn utw qt ráx qfx qnlfx ij rn
itshjqqf; nsinhntx xts ij rfq ujhmt d rzjxywfx vzj st htwwjxutsijs f
azjxywf kfrf. Atqajiqj qfx qnlfx; xn st, dt tx ijxfkít f rtwyfq gfyfqqf,
xns yjsjw yjrtw vzj rfqfsiwnsjx jshfsyfitwjx rj azjqafs sn rzijs jq wtxywt,
htrt mfs mjhmt js jq ij Ytxnqtx rn qfhfdt, jq vzj jsywó hts atx js gfyfqqf.

-St vznjwf Intx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- vzj dt ijxjsafnsj rn jxufif htsywf
azjxywf nqzxywíxnrf ujwxtsf, ij vznjs yfsyfx rjwhjijx mj wjhjgnit; qtx
ythfitwjx atqajwé, utwvzj inhj Xfshmt vzj qtx ynjsj; qfx qnlfx jx
nrutxngqj, utwvzj sn dt qfx mj wjhjgnit sn éq yfrutht; d xn jxyf azjxywf
itshjqqf vznxnjwj rnwfw xzx jxhtsiwnotx, f gzjs xjlzwt vzj qfx mfqqj. Dt,
xjñtw izvzj, ofráx mj xnit qfiwós, sn qt unjsxt xjw js ytif rn anif, htrt
Intx st rj ijoj ij xz rfst. Jxyf itshjqqf mfgqf, htrt jqqf inhj, htrt
jsfrtwfif, ij qt vzj dt st qj yjslt hzquf; d fxí, st yjslt ij vzé ujinwqj
ujwiós sn f jqqf sn f Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf, f vznjs xzuqnht rj yjslf js rjotw
tunsnós, d rj ié ij szjat qnhjshnf ufwf xjlznw rn hfrnst.

-Iétxqj Intx yfs gzjst -inot qf izvzjxf-, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj xnjruwj
tnlfrtx gzjsfx szjafx ij azjxywfx kjhmzwífx. D fsifi hts Intx; vzj,
rnjsywfx ráx tx ijyjsénx, ráx fzrjsyánx jq kzjlt js qtx ujhmtx ij qfx
itshjqqfx vzj tx rnwfs; d f qf ríf dt qf hfxynlfwé ij rtit, vzj ij fvzí
fijqfsyj st xj ijxrfsij hts qf anxyf sn hts qfx ufqfgwfx.

-Zsf st ráx vznjwt vzj rj jxhzhmjx, ¡tm afqjwtxt its Vznotyj! -inot
jsytshjx Fqynxnitwf-; d jx vzj yj unit ujwiós ijq qfywthnsnt ij qfx qnlfx,
utwvzj, js Intx d js rn ásnrf vzj qfx yjslt uzjxyfx, d mj hfíit js jq
ijxhznit ijq vzj djsit xtgwj jq fxst, qj gzxhfgf.

-¿St qt inoj dt? -inot Xfshmt-. ¡Gtsnht xtd dt ufwf jshzgwnw mzwytx! Uzjx,
f vzjwjwqtx mfhjw, ij ufqjyf rj mfgíf ajsnit qf thfxnós js rn ltgnjwst.

Fgfoó qf hfgjef its Vznotyj d mnet wjajwjshnf f qtx izvzjx d f ytitx qtx
hnwhzsxyfsyjx, d, atqanjsit qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj, xnlznésitqj Xfshmt
xtgwj jq wzhnt, xj xfqnó ijq hfxynqqt, jsijwjefsit xz hfrnst f Efwfltef.





Hfuíyzqt QANNN. Vzj ywfyf ij hórt rjszijfwts xtgwj its Vznotyj fajsyzwfx
yfsyfx, vzj st xj ifgfs aflfw zsfx f tywfx


Hzfsit its Vznotyj xj ant js qf hfrufñf wfxf, qngwj d ijxjrgfwfefit ij qtx
wjvznjgwtx ij Fqynxnitwf, qj ufwjhnó vzj jxyfgf js xz hjsywt, d vzj qtx
jxuíwnyzx xj qj wjstafgfs ufwf uwtxjlznw ij szjat jq fxzruyt ij xzx
hfgfqqjwífx, d, atqanésitxj f Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Qf qngjwyfi, Xfshmt, jx zst ij qtx ráx uwjhntxtx itsjx vzj f qtx mtrgwjx
injwts qtx hnjqtx; hts jqqf st uzjijs nlzfqfwxj qtx yjxtwtx vzj jshnjwwf qf
ynjwwf sn jq rfw jshzgwj; utw qf qngjwyfi, fxí htrt utw qf mtswf, xj uzjij
d ijgj fajsyzwfw qf anif, d, utw jq htsywfwnt, jq hfzynajwnt jx jq rfdtw
rfq vzj uzjij ajsnw f qtx mtrgwjx. Inlt jxyt, Xfshmt, utwvzj gnjs mfx anxyt
jq wjlfqt, qf fgzsifshnf vzj js jxyj hfxynqqt vzj ijofrtx mjrtx yjsnit;
uzjx js rjyfi ij fvzjqqtx gfsvzjyjx xfetsfitx d ij fvzjqqfx gjgnifx ij
snjaj, rj ufwjhíf f rí vzj jxyfgf rjynit jsywj qfx jxywjhmjefx ij qf
mfrgwj, utwvzj st qt ltefgf hts qf qngjwyfi vzj qt ltefwf xn kzjwfs rítx;
vzj qfx tgqnlfhntsjx ij qfx wjhtrujsxfx ij qtx gjsjknhntx d rjwhjijx
wjhjgnifx xts fyfizwfx vzj st ijofs hfrujfw fq ásnrt qngwj. ¡Ajsyzwtxt
fvzéq f vznjs jq hnjqt int zs ujifet ij ufs, xns vzj qj vzjij tgqnlfhnós ij
flwfijhjwqt f tywt vzj fq rnxrt hnjqt!

-Hts ytit jxt -inot Xfshmt- vzj azjxf rjwhji rj mf inhmt, st jx gnjs vzj xj
vzjij xns flwfijhnrnjsyt ij szjxywf ufwyj ithnjsytx jxhzitx ij twt vzj js
zsf gtqxnqqf rj int jq rfdtwitrt ijq izvzj, vzj htrt uíhynrf d htsktwyfynat
qf qqjat uzjxyf xtgwj jq htwfeós, ufwf qt vzj xj tkwjhnjwj; vzj st xnjruwj
mjrtx ij mfqqfw hfxynqqtx itsij stx wjlfqjs, vzj yfq aje ytufwjrtx hts
fqlzsfx ajsyfx itsij stx fufqjjs.

Js jxytx d tywtx wfetsfrnjsytx ngfs qtx fsifsyjx, hfgfqqjwt d jxhzijwt,
hzfsit anjwts, mfgnjsit fsifit utht ráx ij zsf qjlzf, vzj jshnrf ij qf
djwgf ij zs uwfinqqt ajwij, jshnrf ij xzx hfufx, jxyfgfs htrnjsit mfxyf zsf
ithjsf ij mtrgwjx, ajxynitx ij qfgwfitwjx. Ozsyt f xí yjsífs zsfx htrt
xágfsfx gqfshfx, hts vzj hzgwífs fqlzsf htxf vzj ijgfot jxyfgf; jxyfgfs
jrunsfifx d yjsinifx, d ij ywjhmt f ywjhmt uzjxyfx. Qqjló its Vznotyj f qtx
vzj htrífs, d, xfqziásitqtx uwnrjwt htwyéxrjsyj, qjx uwjlzsyó vzj vzé jwf
qt vzj fvzjqqtx qnjsetx hzgwífs. Zst ijqqtx qj wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw, ijgfot ijxytx qnjsetx jxyás zsfx nrálnsjx ij wjqnjaj d jsyfgqfizwf
vzj mfs ij xjwanw js zs wjyfgqt vzj mfhjrtx js szjxywf fqijf; qqjaártxqfx
hzgnjwyfx, utwvzj st xj ijxkqtwjs, d js mtrgwtx, utwvzj st xj vznjgwjs.

-Xn xtnx xjwanitx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, mtqlfwíf ij ajwqfx, uzjx
nrálnsjx vzj hts yfsyt wjhfyt xj qqjafs, xns izif ijgjs ij xjw gzjsfx.

-D ¡hórt xn qt xts! -inot tywt-. Xn st, iílfqt qt vzj hzjxyf: vzj js ajwifi
vzj st mfd snslzsf vzj st jxyé js ráx ij hnshzjsyf izhfitx; d, utwvzj ajf
azjxywf rjwhji jxyf ajwifi, jxujwj azjxywf rjwhji, d ajwqf mf utw anxyf ij
totx.

D, qjafsyásitxj, ijoó ij htrjw d kzj f vznyfw qf hzgnjwyf ij qf uwnrjwf
nrfljs, vzj rtxywó xjw qf ij Xfs Otwlj uzjxyt f hfgfqqt, hts zsf xjwunjsyj
jswtxhfif f qtx unjx d qf qfsef fywfajxfif utw qf gthf, hts qf knjwjef vzj
xzjqj unsyfwxj. Ytif qf nrfljs ufwjhíf zsf fxhzf ij twt, htrt xzjqj
ijhnwxj. Anésitqf its Vznotyj, inot:

-Jxyj hfgfqqjwt kzj zst ij qtx rjotwjx fsifsyjx vzj yzat qf rnqnhnf inansf:
qqfróxj its Xfs Otwlj, d kzj fijráx ijkjsijitw ij itshjqqfx. Ajfrtx jxyf
tywf.

Ijxhzgwnóqf jq mtrgwj, d ufwjhnó xjw qf ij Xfs Rfwyís uzjxyt f hfgfqqt, vzj
ufwyíf qf hfuf hts jq utgwj; d, fujsfx qf mzgt anxyt its Vznotyj, hzfsit
inot:

-Jxyj hfgfqqjwt yfrgnés kzj ij qtx fajsyzwjwtx hwnxynfstx, d hwjt vzj kzj
ráx qngjwfq vzj afqnjsyj, htrt qt uzjijx jhmfw ij ajw, Xfshmt, js vzj jxyá
ufwynjsit qf hfuf hts jq utgwj d qj if qf rnyfi; d xns izif ijgíf ij xjw
jsytshjx nsanjwst, vzj, xn st, éq xj qf injwf ytif, xjlús jwf ij
hfwnyfynat.

-St ijgnó ij xjw jxt -inot Xfshmt-, xnst vzj xj ijgnó ij fyjsjw fq wjkwás
vzj inhjs: vzj ufwf ifw d yjsjw, xjxt jx rjsjxyjw.

Wnóxj its Vznotyj d uninó vzj vznyfxjs tywt qnjset, ijgfot ijq hzfq xj
ijxhzgwnó qf nrfljs ijq Ufywós ij qfx Jxufñfx f hfgfqqt, qf jxufif
jsxfslwjsyfif, fywtujqqfsit rtwtx d unxfsit hfgjefx; d, js anésitqf, inot
its Vznotyj:

-Éxyj xí vzj jx hfgfqqjwt, d ij qfx jxhzfiwfx ij Hwnxyt; éxyj xj qqfrf its
Xfs Injlt Rfyfrtwtx, zst ij qtx ráx afqnjsyjx xfsytx d hfgfqqjwtx vzj yzat
jq rzsit d ynjsj fltwf jq hnjqt.

Qzjlt ijxhzgwnjwts tywt qnjset, d ufwjhnó vzj jshzgwíf qf hfíif ij Xfs
Ufgqt ijq hfgfqqt fgfot, hts ytifx qfx hnwhzsxyfshnfx vzj js jq wjyfgqt ij
xz htsajwxnós xzjqjs unsyfwxj. Hzfsit qj anit yfs fq anat, vzj inojwfs vzj
Hwnxyt qj mfgqfgf d Ufgqt wjxutsiíf.

-Éxyj -inot its Vznotyj- kzj jq rfdtw jsjrnlt vzj yzat qf Nlqjxnf ij Intx
Szjxywt Xjñtw js xz ynjrut, d jq rfdtw ijkjsxtw xzdt vzj yjsiwá ofráx:
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj utw qf anif, d xfsyt f unj vzjit utw qf rzjwyj,
ywfgfofitw nshfsxfgqj js qf anñf ijq Xjñtw, ithytw ij qfx ljsyjx, f vznjs
xnwanjwts ij jxhzjqfx qtx hnjqtx d ij hfyjiwáynht d rfjxywt vzj qj jsxjñfxj
jq rnxrt Ojxzhwnxyt.

St mfgíf ráx nrálnsjx, d fxí, rfsió its Vznotyj vzj qfx atqanjxjs f hzgwnw,
d inot f qtx vzj qfx qqjafgfs:

-Utw gzjs flüjwt mj yjsnit, mjwrfstx, mfgjw anxyt qt vzj mj anxyt, utwvzj
jxytx xfsytx d hfgfqqjwtx uwtkjxfwts qt vzj dt uwtkjxt, vzj jx jq jojwhnhnt
ij qfx fwrfx; xnst vzj qf inkjwjshnf vzj mfd jsywj rí d jqqtx jx vzj jqqtx
kzjwts xfsytx d ujqjfwts f qt inanst, d dt xtd ujhfitw d ujqjt f qt mzrfst.
Jqqtx htsvznxyfwts jq hnjqt f kzjwef ij gwfetx, utwvzj jq hnjqt ufijhj
kzjwef, d dt mfxyf fltwf st xé qt vzj htsvznxyt f kzjwef ij rnx ywfgfotx;
ujwt xn rn Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt xfqnjxj ij qtx vzj ufijhj, rjotwásitxj rn
ajsyzwf d fitgásitxjrj jq oznhnt, utiwíf xjw vzj jshfrnsfxj rnx ufxtx utw
rjotw hfrnst ijq vzj qqjat.

-Intx qt tnlf d jq ujhfit xjf xtwit -inot Xfshmt f jxyf thfxnós.

Firnwáwtsxj qtx mtrgwjx, fxí ij qf knlzwf htrt ij qfx wfetsjx ij its
Vznotyj, xns jsyjsijw qf rnyfi ij qt vzj js jqqfx ijhnw vzjwíf. Fhfgfwts ij
htrjw, hfwlfwts hts xzx nrálnsjx, d, ijxuninésitxj ij its Vznotyj,
xnlznjwts xz anfoj.

Vzjió Xfshmt ij szjat htrt xn ofráx mzgnjwf htsthnit f xz xjñtw, firnwfit
ij qt vzj xfgíf, ufwjhnésitqj vzj st ijgíf ij mfgjw mnxytwnf js jq rzsit sn
xzhjxt vzj st qt yzanjxj hnkwfit js qf zñf d hqfafit js qf rjrtwnf, d
iíotqj:

-Js ajwifi, xjñtw szjxywfrt, vzj xn jxyt vzj stx mf xzhjinit mtd xj uzjij
qqfrfw fajsyzwf, jqqf mf xnit ij qfx ráx xzfajx d izqhjx vzj js ytit jq
inxhzwxt ij szjxywf ujwjlwnsfhnós stx mf xzhjinit: ijqqf mfgjrtx xfqnit xns
ufqtx d xtgwjxfqyt fqlzst, sn mjrtx jhmfit rfst f qfx jxufifx, sn mjrtx
gfynit qf ynjwwf hts qtx hzjwutx, sn vzjifrtx mfrgwnjsytx. Gjsinyt xjf
Intx, vzj yfq rj mf ijofit ajw hts rnx uwtuntx totx.

-Yú inhjx gnjs, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt mfx ij fiajwynw vzj st
ytitx qtx ynjrutx xts zstx, sn htwwjs ij zsf rnxrf xzjwyj, d jxyt vzj jq
azqlt xzjqj qqfrfw htrúsrjsyj flüjwtx, vzj st xj kzsifs xtgwj sfyzwfq wfeós
fqlzsf, ijq vzj jx inxhwjyt mfs ij xjw yjsnitx d ozelfw utw gzjstx
fhtsyjhnrnjsytx. Qjaásyfxj zst ijxytx fltwjwtx utw qf rfñfsf, xfqj ij xz
hfxf, jshzésywfxj hts zs kwfnqj ij qf twijs ijq gnjsfajsyzwfit Xfs
Kwfshnxht, d, htrt xn mzgnjwf jshtsywfit hts zs lwnkt, azjqaj qfx jxufqifx
d azéqajxj f xz hfxf. Ijwwárfxjqj fq tywt Rjsitef qf xfq jshnrf ij qf rjxf,
d ijwwárfxjqj f éq qf rjqfshtqíf utw jq htwfeós, htrt xn jxyzanjxj tgqnlfif
qf sfyzwfqjef f ifw xjñfqjx ij qfx ajsnijwfx ijxlwfhnfx hts htxfx yfs ij
utht rtrjsyt htrt qfx wjkjwnifx. Jq inxhwjyt d hwnxynfst st mf ij fsifw js
uzsynqqtx hts qt vzj vznjwj mfhjw jq hnjqt. Qqjlf Hnunós f Ákwnhf, ywtunjef
js xfqyfsit js ynjwwf, ynésjsqt utw rfq flüjwt xzx xtqifitx; ujwt éq,
fgwfeásitxj hts jq xzjqt, inot: ''St yj rj utiwáx mznw, Ákwnhf, utwvzj yj
yjslt fxnif d jsywj rnx gwfetx''. Fxí vzj, Xfshmt, jq mfgjw jshtsywfit hts
jxyfx nrálnsjx mf xnit ufwf rí kjqnhíxnrt fhtsyjhnrnjsyt.

-Dt fxí qt hwjt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d vzjwwíf vzj azjxywf rjwhji rj inojxj
vzé jx qf hfzxf utw vzj inhjs qtx jxufñtqjx hzfsit vznjwjs ifw fqlzsf
gfyfqqf, nsathfsit fvzjq Xfs Injlt Rfyfrtwtx: "¡Xfsynflt, d hnjwwf,
Jxufñf!" ¿Jxyá utw ajsyzwf Jxufñf fgnjwyf, d ij rtit vzj jx rjsjxyjw
hjwwfwqf, t vzé hjwjrtsnf jx éxyf?

-Xnruqnhíxnrt jwjx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-; d rnwf vzj jxyj lwfs
hfgfqqjwt ij qf hwze gjwrjof máxjqt ifit Intx f Jxufñf utw ufywós d frufwt
xzdt, jxujhnfqrjsyj js qtx wnlzwtxtx ywfshjx vzj hts qtx rtwtx qtx
jxufñtqjx mfs yjsnit; d fxí, qj nsathfs d qqfrfs htrt f ijkjsxtw xzdt js
ytifx qfx gfyfqqfx vzj fhtrjyjs, d rzhmfx ajhjx qj mfs anxyt anxngqjrjsyj
js jqqfx, ijwwngfsit, fywtujqqfsit, ijxywzdjsit d rfyfsit qtx flfwjstx
jxhzfiwtsjx; d ijxyf ajwifi yj uzinjwf ywfjw rzhmtx jojruqtx vzj js qfx
ajwifijwfx mnxytwnfx jxufñtqfx xj hzjsyfs.

Rzió Xfshmt uqáynhf, d inot f xz frt:

-Rfwfanqqfit jxytd, xjñtw, ij qf ijxjsatqyzwf ij Fqynxnitwf, qf itshjqqf ij
qf izvzjxf: gwfafrjsyj qf ijgj ij yjsjw mjwnif d ywfxufxfif fvzjq vzj
qqfrfs Frtw, vzj inhjs vzj jx zs wfufe hjlzjezjqt vzj, hts jxyfw qflfñtxt,
t, utw rjotw ijhnw, xns anxyf, xn ytrf utw gqfsht zs htwfeós, utw ujvzjñt
vzj xjf, qj fhnjwyf d ywfxufxf ij ufwyj f ufwyj hts xzx kqjhmfx. Mj tíit
ijhnw yfrgnés vzj js qf ajwlüjsef d wjhfyt ij qfx itshjqqfx xj ijxuzsyfs d
jrgtyfs qfx frtwtxfx xfjyfx, ujwt js jxyf Fqynxnitwf ráx ufwjhj vzj xj
flzefs vzj ijxuzsyfs.

-Fianjwyj, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj jq frtw sn rnwf wjxujytx sn
lzfwif yéwrnstx ij wfeós js xzx inxhzwxtx, d ynjsj qf rnxrf htsinhnós vzj
qf rzjwyj: vzj fxí fhtrjyj qtx fqytx fqháefwjx ij qtx wjdjx htrt qfx
mzrnqijx hmtefx ij qtx ufxytwjx, d hzfsit ytrf jsyjwf utxjxnós ij zsf fqrf,
qt uwnrjwt vzj mfhj jx vznyfwqj jq yjrtw d qf ajwlüjsef; d fxí, xns jqqf
ijhqfwó Fqynxnitwf xzx ijxjtx, vzj jsljsiwfwts js rn ujhmt fsyjx htskzxnós
vzj qáxynrf.

-¡Hwzjqifi stytwnf! -inot Xfshmt-. ¡Ijxflwfijhnrnjsyt nsfzinyt! Dt ij rí xé
ijhnw vzj rj wnsinjwf d fafxfqqfwf qf ráx rísnrf wfeós frtwtxf xzdf.
¡Mnijuzyf, d vzé htwfeós ij ráwrtq, vzé jsywfñfx ij gwtshj d vzé fqrf ij
fwlfrfxf! Ujwt st uzjit ujsxfw vzé jx qt vzj ant jxyf itshjqqf js azjxywf
rjwhji vzj fxí qf wnsinjxj d fafxfqqfxj: vzé lfqf, vzé gwít, vzé itsfnwj,
vzé wtxywt, vzj hfif htxf utw xí iéxyfx, t ytifx ozsyfx, qj jsfrtwfwts; vzj
js ajwifi js ajwifi vzj rzhmfx ajhjx rj ufwt f rnwfw f azjxywf rjwhji ijxij
qf uzsyf ijq unj mfxyf jq úqynrt hfgjqqt ij qf hfgjef, d vzj ajt ráx htxfx
ufwf jxufsyfw vzj ufwf jsfrtwfw; d, mfgnjsit dt yfrgnés tíit ijhnw vzj qf
mjwrtxzwf jx qf uwnrjwf d uwnshnufq ufwyj vzj jsfrtwf, st yjsnjsit azjxywf
rjwhji snslzsf, st xé dt ij vzé xj jsfrtwó qf utgwj.

-Fianjwyj, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj mfd itx rfsjwfx ij
mjwrtxzwf: zsf ijq fqrf d tywf ijq hzjwut; qf ijq fqrf hfrujf d xj rzjxywf
js jq jsyjsinrnjsyt, js qf mtsjxynifi, js jq gzjs uwthjijw, js qf
qngjwfqnifi d js qf gzjsf hwnfsef, d ytifx jxyfx ufwyjx hfgjs d uzjijs
jxyfw js zs mtrgwj kjt; d hzfsit xj utsj qf rnwf js jxyf mjwrtxzwf, d st js
qf ijq hzjwut, xzjqj sfhjw jq frtw hts írujyz d hts ajsyfofx. Dt, Xfshmt,
gnjs ajt vzj st xtd mjwrtxt, ujwt yfrgnés htsteht vzj st xtd inxktwrj; d
gáxyfqj f zs mtrgwj ij gnjs st xjw rtsxywzt ufwf xjw gnjs vzjwnit, htrt
yjslf qtx ityjx ijq fqrf vzj yj mj inhmt.

Js jxyfx wfetsjx d uqáynhfx xj ngfs jsywfsit utw zsf xjqaf vzj kzjwf ijq
hfrnst jxyfgf, d f ijxmtwf, xns ujsxfw js jqqt, xj mfqqó its Vznotyj
jswjifit jsywj zsfx wjijx ij mnqt ajwij, vzj ijxij zstx áwgtqjx f tywtx
jxyfgfs yjsinifx; d, xns utijw nrflnsfw vzé uzinjxj xjw fvzjqqt, inot f
Xfshmt:

-Ufwéhjrj, Xfshmt, vzj jxyt ijxyfx wjijx ijgj ij xjw zsf ij qfx ráx szjafx
fajsyzwfx vzj uzjif nrflnsfw. Vzj rj rfyjs xn qtx jshfsyfitwjx vzj rj
ujwxnlzjs st vznjwjs jswjifwrj js jqqfx d ijyjsjw rn hfrnst, htrt js
ajslfsef ij qf wnlzwnifi vzj hts Fqynxnitwf mj yjsnit. Uzjx rásitqjx dt
vzj, fzsvzj jxyfx wjijx, xn htrt xts mjhmfx ij mnqt ajwij kzjwfs ij
izwíxnrtx infrfsyjx, t ráx kzjwyjx vzj fvzéqqf hts vzj jq hjqtxt intx ij
qtx mjwwjwtx jswjió f Ajszx d f Rfwyj, fxí qf wtrunjwf htrt xn kzjwf ij
ozshtx rfwnstx t ij mnqfhmfx ij fqltiós.

D, vzjwnjsit ufxfw fijqfsyj d wtrujwqt ytit, fq nruwtanxt xj qj tkwjhnjwts
ijqfsyj, xfqnjsit ij jsywj zstx áwgtqjx, itx mjwrtxíxnrfx ufxytwfx; f qt
rjstx, ajxynifx htrt ufxytwfx, xnst vzj qtx ujqqnhtx d xfdfx jwfs ij knst
gwthfit, inlt, vzj qfx xfdfx jwfs wnvzíxnrtx kfqijqqnsjx ij yfgí ij twt.
Ywfífs qtx hfgjqqtx xzjqytx utw qfx jxufqifx, vzj js wzgntx utiífs htrujynw
hts qtx wfdtx ijq rnxrt xtq; qtx hzfqjx xj htwtsfgfs hts itx lznwsfqifx ij
ajwij qfzwjq d ij wtot frfwfsyt yjonifx. Qf jifi, fq ufwjhjw, sn gfofgf ij
qtx vznshj sn ufxfgf ij qtx inje d thmt.

Anxyf kzj éxyf vzj firnwó f Xfshmt, xzxujsinó f its Vznotyj, mnet ufwfw fq
xtq js xz hfwwjwf ufwf ajwqfx, d yzat js rfwfanqqtxt xnqjshnt f ytitx
hzfywt. Js kns, vznjs uwnrjwt mfgqó kzj zsf ij qfx itx eflfqfx, vzj inot f
its Vznotyj:

-Ijyjsji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, jq ufxt, d st wtruánx qfx wjijx, vzj st ufwf
ifñt azjxywt, xnst ufwf szjxywt ufxfynjrut, fmí jxyás yjsinifx; d, utwvzj
xé vzj stx mfgénx ij uwjlzsyfw ufwf vzé xj mfs uzjxyt d vznés xtrtx, tx qt
vznjwt ijhnw js gwjajx ufqfgwfx. Js zsf fqijf vzj jxyá mfxyf itx qjlzfx ij
fvzí, itsij mfd rzhmf ljsyj uwnshnufq d rzhmtx mnifqltx d wnhtx, jsywj
rzhmtx frnltx d ufwnjsyjx xj htshjwyó vzj hts xzx mnotx, rzojwjx d mnofx,
ajhnstx, frnltx d ufwnjsyjx, stx ansnéxjrtx f mtqlfw f jxyj xnynt, vzj jx
zst ij qtx ráx flwfifgqjx ij ytitx jxytx htsytwstx, ktwrfsit jsywj ytitx
zsf szjaf d ufxytwnq Fwhfinf, anxynésitstx qfx itshjqqfx ij eflfqfx d qtx
rfshjgtx ij ufxytwjx. Ywfjrtx jxyzinfifx itx élqtlfx, zsf ijq kfrtxt utjyf
Lfwhnqfxt, d tywf ijq jchjqjsyíxnrt Hfrtjx, js xz rnxrf qjslzf
utwyzlzjxf, qfx hzfqjx mfxyf fltwf st mjrtx wjuwjxjsyfit. Fdjw kzj jq
uwnrjwt iíf vzj fvzí qqjlfrtx; yjsjrtx jsywj jxytx wfrtx uqfsyfifx fqlzsfx
ynjsifx, vzj inhjs xj qqfrfs ij hfrufñf, js jq rfwljs ij zs fgzsitxt fwwtdt
vzj ytitx jxytx uwfitx kjwynqnef; yjsinrtx qf sthmj ufxfif jxyfx wjijx ij
jxytx áwgtqjx ufwf jslfñfw qtx xnruqjx ufofwnqqtx, vzj, tojfitx hts szjxywt
wznit, ansnjwjs f ifw js jqqfx. Xn lzxyánx, xjñtw, ij xjw szjxywt mzéxuji,
xjwénx flfxfofit qngjwfq d htwyéxrjsyj; utwvzj utw fltwf js jxyj xnynt st
mf ij jsywfw qf ujxfizrgwj sn qf rjqfshtqíf.

Hfqqó d st inot ráx. F qt vzj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj:

-Utw hnjwyt, mjwrtxíxnrf xjñtwf, vzj st ijgnó ij vzjifw ráx xzxujsxt sn
firnwfit Fsyjós hzfsit ant fq nruwtanxt gfñfwxj js qfx flzfx f Infsf, htrt
dt mj vzjifit fyósnyt js ajw azjxywf gjqqjef. Fqfgt jq fxzruyt ij azjxywtx
jsywjyjsnrnjsytx, d jq ij azjxywtx tkwjhnrnjsytx flwfijeht; d, xn tx uzjit
xjwanw, hts xjlzwnifi ij xjw tgjijhnifx rj qt utiénx rfsifw; utwvzj st jx
éxyf qf uwtkjxnós ríf, xnst ij rtxywfwrj flwfijhnit d gnjsmjhmtw hts ytit
lésjwt ij ljsyj, js jxujhnfq hts qf uwnshnufq vzj azjxywfx ujwxtsfx
wjuwjxjsyf; d, xn htrt jxyfx wjijx, vzj ijgjs ij thzufw fqlús ujvzjñt
jxufhnt, thzufwfs ytif qf wjitsije ij qf ynjwwf, gzxhfwf dt szjatx rzsitx
utw it ufxfw xns wtrujwqfx; d utwvzj ijnx fqlús hwéinyt f jxyf rn
jcfljwfhnós, aji vzj tx qt uwtrjyj, utw qt rjstx, its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
xn jx vzj mf qqjlfit f azjxywtx tíitx jxyj strgwj.

-¡Fd, frnlf ij rn fqrf -inot jsytshjx qf tywf eflfqf-, d vzé ajsyzwf yfs
lwfsij stx mf xzhjinit! ¿Ajx jxyj xjñtw vzj yjsjrtx ijqfsyj? Uzjx máltyj
xfgjw vzj jx jq ráx afqnjsyj, d jq ráx jsfrtwfit, d jq ráx htrjinit vzj
ynjsj jq rzsit, xn st jx vzj stx rnjsyj d stx jslfñf zsf mnxytwnf vzj ij
xzx mfefñfx fsif nruwjxf d dt mj qjíit. Dt futxyfwé vzj jxyj gzjs mtrgwj
vzj anjsj htsxnlt jx zs yfq Xfshmt Ufsef, xz jxhzijwt, f hzdfx lwfhnfx st
mfd snslzsfx vzj xj qj nlzfqjs.

-Fxí jx qf ajwifi -inot Xfshmt-: vzj dt xtd jxj lwfhntxt d jxj jxhzijwt vzj
azjxywf rjwhji inhj, d jxyj xjñtw jx rn frt, jq rnxrt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf mnxytwnfit d wjkjwnit.

-¡Fd! -inot qf tywf-. Xzuqnvzértxqj, frnlf, vzj xj vzjij; vzj szjxywtx
ufiwjx d szjxywtx mjwrfstx lzxyfwás nsknsnyt ijqqt, vzj yfrgnés mj tíit dt
ijhnw ij xz afqtw d ij xzx lwfhnfx qt rnxrt vzj yú rj mfx inhmt, d, xtgwj
ytit, inhjs iéq vzj jx jq ráx knwrj d ráx qjfq jsfrtwfit vzj xj xfgj, d vzj
xz ifrf jx zsf yfq Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, f vznjs js ytif Jxufñf qf ifs qf
ufqrf ij qf mjwrtxzwf.

-Hts wfeós xj qf ifs -inot its Vznotyj-, xn df st qt utsj js izif azjxywf
xns nlzfq gjqqjef. St tx hfsxénx, xjñtwfx, js ijyjsjwrj, utwvzj qfx
uwjhnxfx tgqnlfhntsjx ij rn uwtkjxnós st rj ijofs wjutxfw js snslús hfgt.

Qqjló, js jxyt, fitsij qtx hzfywt jxyfgfs zs mjwrfst ij zsf ij qfx itx
ufxytwfx, ajxynit fxnrnxrt ij ufxytw, hts qf wnvzjef d lfqfx vzj f qfx ij
qfx eflfqfx htwwjxutsiíf; htsyáwtsqj jqqfx vzj jq vzj hts jqqfx jxyfgf jwf
jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, d jq tywt, xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt, ij
vznjs yjsíf éq df stynhnf, utw mfgjw qjíit xz mnxytwnf. Tkwjhnóxjqj jq
lfqqfwit ufxytw, uninóqj vzj xj ansnjxj hts éq f xzx ynjsifx; múgtqt ij
htshjijw its Vznotyj, d fxí qt mnet.

Qqjló, js jxyt, jq tojt, qqjsáwtsxj qfx wjijx ij ufofwnqqtx inkjwjsyjx vzj,
jslfñfitx ij qf htqtw ij qfx wjijx, hfífs js jq ujqnlwt ij vzj ngfs
mzdjsit. Ozsyáwtsxj js fvzjq xnynt ráx ij ywjnsyf ujwxtsfx, ytifx
gnefwwfrjsyj ij ufxytwjx d ufxytwfx ajxynifx, d js zs nsxyfsyj vzjifwts
jsyjwfifx ij vznésjx jwfs its Vznotyj d xz jxhzijwt, ij vzj st utht
htsyjsyt wjhngnjwts, utwvzj df yjsífs iéq stynhnf utw xz mnxytwnf.
Fhzinjwts f qfx ynjsifx, mfqqfwts qfx rjxfx uzjxyfx, wnhfx, fgzsifsyjx d
qnrunfx; mtswfwts f its Vznotyj iásitqj jq uwnrjw qzlfw js jqqfx; rnwágfsqj
ytitx, d firnwágfsxj ij ajwqj.

Knsfqrjsyj, fqefitx qtx rfsyjqjx, hts lwfs wjutxt fqeó its Vznotyj qf ate,
d inot:

-Jsywj qtx ujhfitx rfdtwjx vzj qtx mtrgwjx htrjyjs, fzsvzj fqlzstx inhjs
vzj jx qf xtgjwgnf, dt inlt vzj jx jq ijxflwfijhnrnjsyt, fyjsnésitrj f qt
vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj: vzj ij qtx ijxflwfijhnitx jxyá qqjst jq nsknjwst. Jxyj
ujhfit, js hzfsyt rj mf xnit utxngqj, mj uwthzwfit dt mznw ijxij jq
nsxyfsyj vzj yzaj zxt ij wfeós; d xn st uzjit uflfw qfx gzjsfx tgwfx vzj rj
mfhjs hts tywfx tgwfx, utslt js xz qzlfw qtx ijxjtx ij mfhjwqfx, d hzfsit
éxytx st gfxyfs, qfx uzgqnht; utwvzj vznjs inhj d uzgqnhf qfx gzjsfx tgwfx
vzj wjhngj, yfrgnés qfx wjhtrujsxfwf hts tywfx, xn uzinjwf; utwvzj, utw qf
rfdtw ufwyj, qtx vzj wjhngjs xts nskjwntwjx f qtx vzj ifs; d fxí, jx Intx
xtgwj ytitx, utwvzj jx ifitw xtgwj ytitx d st uzjijs htwwjxutsijw qfx
iáinafx ijq mtrgwj f qfx ij Intx hts nlzfqifi, utw nsknsnyf inxyfshnf; d
jxyf jxywjhmjef d htwyjifi, js hnjwyt rtit, qf xzuqj jq flwfijhnrnjsyt. Dt,
uzjx, flwfijhnit f qf rjwhji vzj fvzí xj rj mf mjhmt, st uzinjsit
htwwjxutsijw f qf rnxrf rjinif, htsyjsnésitrj js qtx jxywjhmtx qírnyjx ij
rn utijwít, tkwjeht qt vzj uzjit d qt vzj yjslt ij rn htxjhmf; d fxí, inlt
vzj xzxyjsyfwé itx iífx sfyzwfqjx js rjyfi ij jxj hfrnst wjfq vzj af f
Efwfltef, vzj jxyfx xjñtwfx eflfqfx htsywfmjhmfx vzj fvzí jxyás xts qfx ráx
mjwrtxfx itshjqqfx d ráx htwyjxjx vzj mfd js jq rzsit, jchjyfit xóqt f qf
xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, úsnhf xjñtwf ij rnx ujsxfrnjsytx, hts ufe xjf
inhmt ij hzfsytx d hzfsyfx rj jxhzhmfs.

Tdjsit qt hzfq, Xfshmt, vzj hts lwfsij fyjshnós qj mfgíf jxyfit jxhzhmfsit,
ifsit zsf lwfs ate, inot:

-¿Jx utxngqj vzj mfdf js jq rzsit ujwxtsfx vzj xj fywjafs f ijhnw d f ozwfw
vzj jxyj rn xjñtw jx qtht? Inlfs azjxywfx rjwhjijx, xjñtwjx ufxytwjx: ¿mfd
hzwf ij fqijf, utw inxhwjyt d utw jxyzinfsyj vzj xjf, vzj uzjif ijhnw qt
vzj rn frt mf inhmt, sn mfd hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, utw ráx kfrf vzj yjslf ij
afqnjsyj, vzj uzjif tkwjhjw qt vzj rn frt fvzí mf tkwjhnit?

Atqanóxj its Vznotyj f Xfshmt, d, jshjsinit jq wtxywt d htqéwnht, qj inot:

-¿Jx utxngqj, ¡tm Xfshmt!, vzj mfdf js ytit jq twgj fqlzsf ujwxtsf vzj inlf
vzj st jwjx ytsyt, fktwwfit ij qt rnxrt, hts st xé vzé wngjyjx ij rfqnhntxt
d ij gjqqfht? ¿Vznés yj rjyj f yn js rnx htxfx, d js fajwnlzfw xn xtd
inxhwjyt t rfofijwt? Hfqqf d st rj wjuqnvzjx, xnst jsxnqqf, xn jxyá
ijxjsxnqqfit Wthnsfsyj: afrtx f utsjw js jkjhyt rn tkwjhnrnjsyt, vzj, hts
qf wfeós vzj af ij rn ufwyj, uzjijx ifw utw ajshnitx f ytitx hzfsytx
vznxnjwjs htsywfijhnwqf.

D, hts lwfs kzwnf d rzjxywfx ij jstot, xj qjafsyó ij qf xnqqf, ijofsit
firnwfitx f qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx, mfhnésitqjx izifw xn qj utiífs yjsjw utw
qtht t utw hzjwit. Knsfqrjsyj, mfgnésitqj ujwxzfinit vzj st xj uzxnjxj js
yfq ijrfsif, vzj jqqtx ifgfs utw gnjs htsthnif xz flwfijhnif atqzsyfi d vzj
st jwfs rjsjxyjw szjafx ijrtxywfhntsjx ufwf htsthjw xz ásnrt afqjwtxt, uzjx
gfxyfgfs qfx vzj js qf mnxytwnf ij xzx mjhmtx xj wjkjwífs, hts ytit jxyt,
xfqnó its Vznotyj hts xz nsyjshnós; d, uzjxyt xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, jrgwfefsit
xz jxhzit d ytrfsit xz qfsef, xj uzxt js qf rnyfi ij zs wjfq hfrnst vzj st
qjotx ijq ajwij uwfit jxyfgf. Xnlznóqj Xfshmt xtgwj xz wzhnt, hts ytif qf
ljsyj ijq ufxytwfq wjgfñt, ijxjtxtx ij ajw js vzé ufwfgf xz fwwtlfsyj d
szshf anxyt tkwjhnrnjsyt.

Uzjxyt, uzjx, its Vznotyj js rnyfi ijq hfrnst -htrt tx mj inhmt-, mnwnó jq
fnwj hts xjrjofsyjx ufqfgwfx:

-¡Tm atxtywtx, ufxfojwtx d anfsifsyjx, hfgfqqjwtx, jxhzijwtx, ljsyj ij f
unj d ij f hfgfqqt vzj utw jxyj hfrnst ufxánx, t mfgénx ij ufxfw js jxytx
itx iífx xnlznjsyjx! Xfgji vzj its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj,
jxyá fvzí uzjxyt ufwf ijkjsijw vzj f ytifx qfx mjwrtxzwfx d htwyjxífx ijq
rzsit jchjijs qfx vzj xj jshnjwwfs js qfx snskfx mfgnyfitwfx ijxytx uwfitx
d gtxvzjx, ijofsit f zs qfit f qf xjñtwf ij rn fqrf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.
Utw jxt, jq vzj kzjwj ij ufwjhjw htsywfwnt, fhzif, vzj fvzí qj jxujwt.

Itx ajhjx wjunynó jxyfx rnxrfx wfetsjx, d itx ajhjx st kzjwts tíifx ij
snslús fajsyzwjwt; ujwt qf xzjwyj, vzj xzx htxfx ngf jshfrnsfsit ij rjotw
js rjotw, twijsó vzj ij fqqí f utht xj ijxhzgwnjxj utw jq hfrnst
rzhmjizrgwj ij mtrgwjx ij f hfgfqqt, d rzhmtx ijqqtx hts qfsefx js qfx
rfstx, hfrnsfsit ytitx funñfitx, ij ywtujq d f lwfs uwnjxf. St qtx mzgnjwts
gnjs anxyt qtx vzj hts its Vznotyj jxyfgfs, hzfsit, atqanjsit qfx jxufqifx,
xj fufwyfwts gnjs qjotx ijq hfrnst, utwvzj htsthnjwts vzj xn jxujwfgfs qjx
utiíf xzhjijw fqlús ujqnlwt; xóqt its Vznotyj, hts nsywéunit htwfeós, xj
jxyzat vzjit, d Xfshmt Ufsef xj jxhzió hts qfx fshfx ij Wthnsfsyj.

Qqjló jq ywtujq ij qtx qfshjwtx, d zst ijqqtx, vzj ajsíf ráx ijqfsyj, f
lwfsijx athjx htrjseó f ijhnw f its Vznotyj:

-¡Fuáwyfyj, mtrgwj ijq infgqt, ijq hfrnst, vzj yj mfwás ujifetx jxytx
ytwtx!

-¡Jf, hfsfqqf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, ufwf rí st mfd ytwtx vzj afqlfs,
fzsvzj xjfs ij qtx ráx gwfatx vzj hwíf Ofwfrf js xzx wngjwfx! Htskjxfi,
rfqfsiwnsjx, fxí f hfwlf hjwwfif, vzj jx ajwifi qt vzj dt fvzí mj
uzgqnhfit; xn st, htsrnlt xtnx js gfyfqqf.

St yzat qzlfw ij wjxutsijw jq afvzjwt, sn its Vznotyj qj yzat ij ijxanfwxj,
fzsvzj vznxnjwf; d fxí, jq ywtujq ij qtx ytwtx gwfatx d jq ij qtx rfsxtx
hfgjxywtx, hts qf rzqynyzi ij qtx afvzjwtx d tywfx ljsyjx vzj f jshjwwfw
qtx qqjafgfs f zs qzlfw itsij tywt iíf mfgífs ij htwwjwxj, ufxfwts xtgwj
its Vznotyj, d xtgwj Xfshmt, Wthnsfsyj d jq wzhnt, ifsit hts ytitx jqqtx js
ynjwwf, jhmásitqj f wtifw utw jq xzjqt. Vzjió rtqnit Xfshmt, jxufsyfit its
Vznotyj, futwwjfit jq wzhnt d st rzd hfyóqnht Wthnsfsyj; ujwt, js kns, xj
qjafsyfwts ytitx, d its Vznotyj, f lwfs uwnjxf, ywtujefsit fvzí d hfdjsit
fqqí, htrjseó f htwwjw ywfx qf afhfif, inhnjsit f athjx:

-¡Ijyjsjtx d jxujwfi, hfsfqqf rfqfsiwnsf, vzj zs xtqt hfgfqqjwt tx jxujwf,
jq hzfq st ynjsj htsinhnós sn jx ij ufwjhjw ij qtx vzj inhjs vzj fq jsjrnlt
vzj mzdj, mfhjwqj qf uzjsyj ij uqfyf!

Ujwt st utw jxt xj ijyzanjwts qtx fuwjxzwfitx htwwjitwjx, sn mnhnjwts ráx
hfxt ij xzx frjsfefx vzj ij qfx szgjx ij fsyfñt. Ijyúatqj jq hfsxfshnt f
its Vznotyj, d, ráx jstofit vzj ajslfit, xj xjsyó js jq hfrnst, jxujwfsit f
vzj Xfshmt, Wthnsfsyj d jq wzhnt qqjlfxjs. Qqjlfwts, atqanjwts f xzgnw frt
d rtet, d, xns atqajw f ijxujinwxj ij qf Fwhfinf knslnif t htsywfmjhmf, d
hts ráx ajwlüjsef vzj lzxyt, xnlznjwts xz hfrnst.





Hfuíyzqt QNC. Itsij xj hzjsyf ijq jcywftwinsfwnt xzhjxt, vzj xj uzjij
yjsjw utw fajsyzwf, vzj qj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj


Fq utqat d fq hfsxfshnt vzj its Vznotyj d Xfshmt xfhfwts ijq
ijxhtrjinrnjsyt ij qtx ytwtx, xthtwwnó zsf kzjsyj hqfwf d qnrunf vzj jsywj
zsf kwjxhf fwgtqjif mfqqfwts, js jq rfwljs ij qf hzfq, ijofsit qngwjx, xns
oávznrf d kwjst, fq wzhnt d f Wthnsfsyj, qtx itx fxjsijwjfitx frt d rtet xj
xjsyfwts. Fhzinó Xfshmt f qf wjutxyjwíf ij xz fqktwofx, d ijqqfx xfhó ij qt
vzj éq xtqíf qqfrfw htsizrnt; jsozflóxj qf gthf, qfaóxj its Vznotyj jq
wtxywt, hts hzdt wjkwnljwnt htgwfwts fqnjsyt qtx jxuíwnyzx ijxfqjsyfitx. St
htríf its Vznotyj, ij uzwt ujxfwtxt, sn Xfshmt st txfgf ythfw f qtx
rfsofwjx vzj ijqfsyj yjsíf, ij uzwt htrjinit, d jxujwfgf f vzj xz xjñtw
mnhnjxj qf xfqaf; ujwt, anjsit vzj, qqjafit ij xzx nrflnsfhntsjx, st xj
fhtwifgf ij qqjafw jq ufs f qf gthf, st fgwnó qf xzdf, d, fywtujqqfsit utw
ytit lésjwt ij hwnfsef, htrjseó f jrgfzqfw js jq jxyórflt jq ufs d vzjxt
vzj xj qj tkwjhíf.

-Htrj, Xfshmt frnlt -inot its Vznotyj-, xzxyjsyf qf anif, vzj ráx vzj f rí
yj nrutwyf, d iéofrj rtwnw f rí f rfstx ij rnx ujsxfrnjsytx d f kzjwefx ij
rnx ijxlwfhnfx. Dt, Xfshmt, sfhí ufwf ananw rzwnjsit, d yú ufwf rtwnw
htrnjsit; d, utwvzj ajfx vzj yj inlt ajwifi js jxyt, htsxniéwfrj nruwjxt js
mnxytwnfx, kfrtxt js qfx fwrfx, htrjinit js rnx fhhntsjx, wjxujyfit ij
uwíshnujx, xtqnhnyfit ij itshjqqfx; fq hfgt fq hfgt, hzfsit jxujwfgf
ufqrfx, ywnzsktx d htwtsfx, lwfsojfifx d rjwjhnifx utw rnx afqjwtxfx
mfefñfx, rj mj anxyt jxyf rfñfsf unxfit d fhthjfit d rtqnit ij qtx unjx ij
fsnrfqjx nsrzsitx d xtjhjx. Jxyf htsxnijwfhnós rj jrgtyf qtx injsyjx,
jsytwujhj qfx rzjqfx, d jsytrjhj qfx rfstx, d vznyf ij ytit js ytit qf
lfsf ijq htrjw, ij rfsjwf vzj unjsxt ijofwrj rtwnw ij mfrgwj: rzjwyj qf ráx
hwzjq ij qfx rzjwyjx.

-Ijxf rfsjwf -inot Xfshmt, xns ijofw ij rfxhfw fuwnjxf- st fuwtgfwá azjxywf
rjwhji fvzjq wjkwás vzj inhjs: "rzjwf Rfwyf, d rzjwf mfwyf". Dt, f qt
rjstx, st unjsxt rfyfwrj f rí rnxrt; fsyjx unjsxt mfhjw htrt jq efufyjwt,
vzj ynwf jq hzjwt hts qtx injsyjx mfxyf vzj qj mfhj qqjlfw itsij éq vznjwj;
dt ynwfwé rn anif htrnjsit mfxyf vzj qqjlzj fq kns vzj qj ynjsj ijyjwrnsfit
jq hnjqt; d xjuf, xjñtw, vzj st mfd rfdtw qthzwf vzj qf vzj ythf js vzjwjw
ijxjxujwfwxj htrt azjxywf rjwhji, d hwéfrj, d ijxuzéx ij htrnit, éhmjxj f
itwrnw zs utht xtgwj qtx htqhmtsjx ajwijx ijxyfx djwgfx, d ajwá htrt hzfsit
ijxunjwyj xj mfqqf fqlt ráx fqnanfit.

Míetqt fxí its Vznotyj, ufwjhnésitqj vzj qfx wfetsjx ij Xfshmt ráx jwfs ij
knqóxtkt vzj ij rjsyjhfyt, d iíotqj:

-Xn yú, ¡tm Xfshmt!, vznxnjxjx mfhjw utw rí qt vzj dt fmtwf yj inwé, xjwífs
rnx fqnantx ráx hnjwytx d rnx ujxfizrgwjx st yfs lwfsijx; d jx vzj,
rnjsywfx dt izjwrt, tgjijhnjsit yzx htsxjotx, yú yj ijxanfxjx zs utht qjotx
ij fvzí, d hts qfx wnjsifx ij Wthnsfsyj, jhmfsit fq fnwj yzx hfwsjx, yj
injxjx ywjhnjsytx t hzfywthnjsytx fetyjx f gzjsf hzjsyf ij qtx ywjx rnq d
yfsytx vzj yj mfx ij ifw utw jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf; vzj jx qáxynrf st
ujvzjñf vzj fvzjqqf utgwj xjñtwf jxyé jshfsyfif utw yz ijxhznit d
sjlqnljshnf.

-Mfd rzhmt vzj ijhnw js jxt -inot Xfshmt-. Izwrfrtx, utw fmtwf, jsywfrgtx,
d ijxuzéx, Intx inot qt vzj xjwá. Xjuf azjxywf rjwhji vzj jxyt ij fetyfwxj
zs mtrgwj f xfslwj kwíf jx htxf wjhnf, d ráx xn hfjs qtx fetyjx xtgwj zs
hzjwut rfq xzxyjsyfit d ujtw htrnit: yjslf ufhnjshnf rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf,
vzj, hzfsit rjstx xj hfyj, rj ajwá mjhmt zsf hwngf, ij fetyjx; d mfxyf qf
rzjwyj, ytit jx anif; vznjwt ijhnw vzj fús dt qf yjslt, ozsyt hts jq ijxjt
ij hzruqnw hts qt vzj mj uwtrjynit.

Flwfijhnésitxjqt its Vznotyj, htrnó fqlt, d Xfshmt rzhmt, d jhmáwtsxj f
itwrnw jsywfrgtx, ijofsit f xz fqgjiwít d xns twijs fqlzsf ufhjw ijq
fgzsitxf djwgf ij vzj fvzjq uwfit jxyfgf qqjst f qtx itx htsynsztx
htrufñjwtx d frnltx Wthnsfsyj d jq wzhnt. Ijxujwyfwts fqlt yfwij, atqanjwts
f xzgnw d f xjlznw xz hfrnst, iásitxj uwnjxf ufwf qqjlfw f zsf ajsyf vzj,
fq ufwjhjw, zsf qjlzf ij fqqí xj ijxhzgwíf. Inlt vzj jwf ajsyf utwvzj its
Vznotyj qf qqfró fxí, kzjwf ijq zxt vzj yjsíf ij qqfrfw f ytifx qfx ajsyfx
hfxynqqtx.

Qqjlfwts, uzjx, f jqqf; uwjlzsyfwts fq mzéxuji xn mfgíf utxfif. Kzjqjx
wjxutsinit vzj xí, hts ytif qf htrtinifi d wjlfqt vzj uzinjwf mfqqfw js
Efwfltef. Fujáwtsxj d wjhtlnó Xfshmt xz wjutxyjwíf js zs futxjsyt, ij vznjs
jq mzéxuji qj int qf qqfaj; qqjaó qfx gjxynfx f qf hfgfqqjwnef, jhmóqjx xzx
unjsxtx, xfqnó f ajw qt vzj its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgf xjsyfit xtgwj zs utdt,
qj rfsifgf, ifsit ufwynhzqfwjx lwfhnfx fq hnjqt ij vzj f xz frt st qj
mzgnjxj ufwjhnit hfxynqqt fvzjqqf ajsyf.

Qqjlóxj qf mtwf ijq hjsfw; wjhtlnéwtsxj f xz jxyfshnf; uwjlzsyó Xfshmt fq
mzéxuji vzj vzé yjsíf ufwf ifwqjx ij hjsfw. F qt vzj jq mzéxuji wjxutsinó
vzj xz gthf xjwíf rjinif; d fxí, vzj uninjxj qt vzj vznxnjxj: vzj ij qfx
ufofwnhfx ijq fnwj, ij qfx fajx ij qf ynjwwf d ij qtx ujxhfitx ijq rfw
jxyfgf uwtajíif fvzjqqf ajsyf.

-St jx rjsjxyjw yfsyt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj hts zs ufw ij utqqtx vzj stx
fxjs yjsiwjrtx qt xzknhnjsyj, utwvzj rn xjñtw jx ijqnhfit d htrj utht, d dt
st xtd ywflfsyós js ijrfxíf.

Wjxutsinóqj jq mzéxuji vzj st yjsíf utqqtx, utwvzj qtx rnqfstx qtx yjsífs
fxtqfitx.

-Uzjx rfsij jq xjñtw mzéxuji -inot Xfshmt- fxfw zsf utqqf vzj xjf ynjwsf.

-¿Utqqf? ¡Rn ufiwj! -wjxutsinó jq mzéxuji-. Js ajwifi js ajwifi vzj jsané
fdjw f qf hnzifi f ajsijw ráx ij hnshzjsyf; ujwt, kzjwf ij utqqfx, unif
azjxywf rjwhji qt vzj vznxnjwj.

-Ijxf rfsjwf -inot Xfshmt-, st kfqyfwá yjwsjwf t hfgwnyt.

-Js hfxf, utw fmtwf -wjxutsinó jq mzéxuji-, st qt mfd, utwvzj xj mf
fhfgfit; ujwt qf xjrfsf vzj anjsj qt mfgwá ij xtgwf.

-¡Rjiwfitx jxyfrtx hts jxt! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Dt utsiwé vzj xj anjsjs f
wjxzrnwxj ytifx jxyfx kfqyfx js qfx xtgwfx vzj ijgj ij mfgjw ij ythnst d
mzjatx.

-¡Utw Intx -wjxutsinó jq mzéxuji-, vzj jx ljsynq wjqjsyj jq vzj rn mzéxuji
ynjsj!, uzjx mjqj inhmt vzj sn yjslt utqqfx sn lfqqnsfx, d ¿vznjwj vzj
yjslf mzjatx? Inxhzwwf, xn vznxnjwj, utw tywfx ijqnhfijefx, d iéojxj ij
ujinw lfqqnsfx.

-Wjxtqaártstx, hzjwut ij rí -inot Xfshmt-, d iílfrj knsfqrjsyj qt vzj
ynjsj, d iéojxj ij inxhzwwnrnjsytx, xjñtw mzéxuji.

Inot jq ajsyjwt:

-Qt vzj wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj yjslt xts itx zñfx ij afhf vzj ufwjhjs rfstx
ij yjwsjwf, t itx rfstx ij yjwsjwf vzj ufwjhjs zñfx ij afhf; jxyás hthnifx
hts xzx lfwgfsetx, hjgtqqfx d ythnst, d qf mtwf ij fmtwf jxyás inhnjsit:
''¡Htrérj! ¡Htrérj!''

-Utw rífx qfx rfwht ijxij fvzí -inot Xfshmt-; d sfinj qfx ytvzj, vzj dt qfx
uflfwé rjotw vzj tywt, utwvzj ufwf rí snslzsf tywf htxf uzinjwf jxujwfw ij
ráx lzxyt, d st xj rj ifwíf sfif vzj kzjxjs rfstx, htrt kzjxjs zñfx.

-Sfinj qfx ythfwá -inot jq ajsyjwt-, utwvzj tywtx mzéxujijx vzj yjslt, ij
uzwt uwnshnufqjx, ywfjs htsxnlt hthnsjwt, ijxujsxjwt d wjutxyjwíf.

-Xn utw uwnshnufqjx af -inot Xfshmt-, snslzst ráx vzj rn frt; ujwt jq
tknhnt vzj éq ywfj st ujwrnyj ijxujsxfx sn gtynqqjwífx: fmí stx yjsijrtx js
rnyfi ij zs uwfit d stx mfwyfrtx ij gjqqtyfx t ij síxujwtx.

Jxyf kzj qf uqáynhf vzj Xfshmt yzat hts jq ajsyjwt, xns vzjwjw Xfshmt ufxfw
fijqfsyj js wjxutsijwqj; vzj df qj mfgíf uwjlzsyfit vzé tknhnt t vzé
jojwhnhnt jwf jq ij xz frt.

Qqjlóxj, uzjx, qf mtwf ijq hjsfw, wjhtlnóxj f xz jxyfshnf its Vznotyj,
ywzot jq mzéxuji qf tqqf, fxí htrt jxyfgf, d xjsyóxj f hjsfw rzd ij
uwtuóxnyt. Ufwjhj xjw vzj js tywt futxjsyt vzj ozsyt fq ij its Vznotyj
jxyfgf, vzj st qj inaniíf ráx vzj zs xzynq yfgnvzj, tdó ijhnw its Vznotyj:

-Utw anif ij azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Ojwósnrt, vzj js yfsyt vzj ywfj qf
hjsf qjfrtx tywt hfuíyzqt ij qf xjlzsif ufwyj ij Its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf.

Fujsfx tdó xz strgwj its Vznotyj, hzfsit xj uzxt js unj, d hts tíit fqjwyt
jxhzhmó qt vzj iéq ywfyfgfs, d tdó vzj jq yfq its Ojwósnrt wjkjwnit
wjxutsinó:

-¿Ufwf vzé vznjwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Ozfs, vzj qjfrtx jxytx
inxufwfyjx? D jq vzj mzgnjwj qjíit qf uwnrjwf ufwyj ij qf mnxytwnf ij its
Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf st jx utxngqj vzj uzjif yjsjw lzxyt js qjjw jxyf
xjlzsif.

-Hts ytit jxt -inot jq its Ozfs-, xjwá gnjs qjjwqf, uzjx st mfd qngwt yfs
rfqt vzj st yjslf fqlzsf htxf gzjsf. Qt vzj f rí js éxyj ráx ijxuqfhj jx
vzj unsyf f its Vznotyj df ijxjsfrtwfit ij Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt.

Tdjsit qt hzfq its Vznotyj, qqjst ij nwf d ij ijxujhmt, fqeó qf ate d inot:

-Vznjsvznjwf vzj inojwj vzj its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf mf tqanifit, sn uzjij
tqanifw, f Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, dt qj mfwé jsyjsijw hts fwrfx nlzfqjx vzj
af rzd qjotx ij qf ajwifi; utwvzj qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt sn uzjij
xjw tqanifif, sn js its Vznotyj uzjij hfgjw tqanit: xz gqfxós jx qf
knwrjef, d xz uwtkjxnós, jq lzfwifwqf hts xzfanifi d xns mfhjwxj kzjwef
fqlzsf.

-¿Vznés jx jq vzj stx wjxutsij? -wjxutsinjwts ijq tywt futxjsyt.

-¿Vznés mf ij xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- xnst jq rnxrt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, vzj mfwá gzjst hzfsyt mf inhmt, d fzs hzfsyt inojwj?; vzj fq gzjs
uflfitw st qj izjqjs uwjsifx.

Fujsfx mzgt inhmt jxyt Xfshmt, hzfsit jsywfwts utw qf uzjwyf ij xz futxjsyt
itx hfgfqqjwtx, vzj yfqjx qt ufwjhífs, d zst ijqqtx jhmfsit qtx gwfetx fq
hzjqqt ij its Vznotyj, qj inot:

-Sn azjxywf uwjxjshnf uzjij ijxrjsynw azjxywt strgwj, sn azjxywt strgwj
uzjij st fhwjinyfw azjxywf uwjxjshnf: xns izif, atx, xjñtw, xtnx jq
ajwifijwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, stwyj d qzhjwt ij qf fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ijq vzj mf vzjwnit zxzwufw azjxywt strgwj d
fsnvznqfw azjxywfx mfefñfx, htrt qt mf mjhmt jq fzytw ijxyj qngwt vzj fvzí
tx jsywjlt.

D, utsnésitqj zs qngwt js qfx rfstx, vzj ywfíf xz htrufñjwt, qj ytró its
Vznotyj, d, xns wjxutsijw ufqfgwf, htrjseó f mtojfwqj, d ij fqqí f zs utht
xj qj atqanó, inhnjsit:

-Js jxyt utht vzj mj anxyt mj mfqqfit ywjx htxfx js jxyj fzytw inlsfx ij
wjuwjmjsxnós. Qf uwnrjwf jx fqlzsfx ufqfgwfx vzj mj qjíit js jq uwóqtlt; qf
tywf, vzj jq qjslzfoj jx fwfltséx, utwvzj yfq aje jxhwngj xns fwyíhzqtx, d
qf yjwhjwf, vzj ráx qj htsknwrf utw nlstwfsyj, jx vzj djwwf d xj ijxaíf ij
qf ajwifi js qt ráx uwnshnufq ij qf mnxytwnf; utwvzj fvzí inhj vzj qf rzojw
ij Xfshmt Ufsef rn jxhzijwt xj qqfrf Rfwn Lzynéwwje, d st qqfrf yfq, xnst
Yjwjxf Ufsef; d vznjs js jxyf ufwyj yfs uwnshnufq djwwf, gnjs xj utiwá
yjrjw vzj djwwf js ytifx qfx ijráx ij qf mnxytwnf.

F jxyt inot Xfshmt:

-¡Itstxf htxf ij mnxytwnfitw! ¡Utw hnjwyt, gnjs ijgj ij jxyfw js jq hzjsyt
ij szjxywtx xzhjxtx, uzjx qqfrf f Yjwjxf Ufsef, rn rzojw, Rfwn Lzynéwwje!
Ytwsj f ytrfw jq qngwt, xjñtw, d rnwj xn fsit dt utw fmí d xn rj mf rzifit
jq strgwj.

-Utw qt vzj mj tíit mfgqfw, frnlt -inot its Ojwósnrt-, xns izif ijgénx ij
xjw Xfshmt Ufsef, jq jxhzijwt ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj.

-Xí xtd -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d rj uwjhnt ijqqt.

-Uzjx f kj -inot jq hfgfqqjwt- vzj st tx ywfyf jxyj fzytw rtijwst hts qf
qnrunjef vzj js azjxywf ujwxtsf xj rzjxywf: uísyftx htrjitw, d xnruqj, d st
sfif lwfhntxt, d rzd tywt ijq Xfshmt vzj js qf uwnrjwf ufwyj ij qf mnxytwnf
ij azjxywt frt xj ijxhwngj.

-Intx xj qt ujwitsj -inot Xfshmt-. Ijoáwfrj js rn wnshós, xns fhtwifwxj ij
rí, utwvzj vznjs qfx xfgj qfx yfñj, d gnjs xj jxyá Xfs Ujiwt js Wtrf.

Qtx itx hfgfqqjwtx uninjwts f its Vznotyj xj ufxfxj f xz jxyfshnf f hjsfw
hts jqqtx, vzj gnjs xfgífs vzj js fvzjqqf ajsyf st mfgíf htxfx
ujwyjsjhnjsyjx ufwf xz ujwxtsf. Its Vznotyj, vzj xnjruwj kzj htrjinit,
htsijhjshnó hts xz ijrfsif d hjsó hts jqqtx; vzjióxj Xfshmt hts qf tqqf hts
rjwt rncyt nrujwnt; xjsyóxj js hfgjhjwf ij rjxf, d hts éq jq ajsyjwt, vzj
st rjstx vzj Xfshmt jxyfgf ij xzx rfstx d ij xzx zñfx fknhntsfit.

Js jq inxhzwxt ij qf hjsf uwjlzsyó its Ozfs f its Vznotyj vzé szjafx yjsíf
ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt: xn xj mfgíf hfxfit, xn jxyfgf ufwnif t
uwjñfif, t xn, jxyfsit js xz jsyjwjef, xj fhtwifgf -lzfwifsit xz mtsjxynifi
d gzjs ijhtwt- ij qtx frtwtxtx ujsxfrnjsytx ijq xjñtw its Vznotyj. F qt vzj
éq wjxutsinó:

-Izqhnsjf xj jxyá jsyjwf, d rnx ujsxfrnjsytx, ráx knwrjx vzj szshf; qfx
htwwjxutsijshnfx, js xz xjvzjifi fsynlzf; xz mjwrtxzwf, js qf ij zsf xtje
qfgwfitwf ywfsxktwrfif.

D qzjlt qjx kzj htsyfsit uzsyt utw uzsyt jq jshfsyt ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf,
d qt vzj qj mfgíf xzhjinit js qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx, hts qf twijs vzj jq
xfgnt Rjwqís qj mfgíf ifit ufwf ijxjshfsyfwqf, vzj kzj qf ij qtx fetyjx ij
Xfshmt.

Xzrt kzj jq htsyjsyt vzj qtx itx hfgfqqjwtx wjhngnjwts ij tíw htsyfw f its
Vznotyj qtx jxywfñtx xzhjxtx ij xz mnxytwnf, d fxí vzjifwts firnwfitx ij
xzx inxufwfyjx htrt ijq jqjlfsyj rtit hts vzj qtx htsyfgf. Fvzí qj yjsífs
utw inxhwjyt, d fqqí xj qjx ijxqnefgf utw rjsyjhfyt, xns xfgjw ijyjwrnsfwxj
vzé lwfit qj ifwífs jsywj qf inxhwjhnós d qf qthzwf.

Fhfgó ij hjsfw Xfshmt, d, ijofsit mjhmt jvznx fq ajsyjwt, xj ufxó f qf
jxyfshnf ij xz frt; d, js jsywfsit, inot:

-Vzj rj rfyjs, xjñtwjx, xn jq fzytw ijxyj qngwt vzj azjxfx rjwhjijx ynjsjs
vznjwj vzj st htrfrtx gzjsfx rnlfx ozsytx; dt vzjwwíf vzj, df vzj rj qqfrf
htrnqós, htrt azjxfx rjwhjijx inhjs, st rj qqfrfxj yfrgnés gtwwfhmt.

-Xí qqfrf -inot its Ojwósnrt-, ujwt st rj fhzjwit js vzé rfsjwf, fzsvzj xé
vzj xts rfqxtsfsyjx qfx wfetsjx, d fijráx, rjsynwtxfx, xjlús dt jhmt ij ajw
js qf knxtstríf ijq gzjs Xfshmt vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj.

-Hwéfsrj azjxfx rjwhjijx -inot Xfshmt- vzj jq Xfshmt d jq its Vznotyj ijxf
mnxytwnf ijgjs ij xjw tywtx vzj qtx vzj fsifs js fvzjqqf vzj htruzxt Hnij
Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, vzj xtrtx stxtywtx: rn frt, afqnjsyj, inxhwjyt d
jsfrtwfit; d dt, xnruqj lwfhntxt, d st htrjitw sn gtwwfhmt.

-Dt fxí qt hwjt -inot its Ozfs-; d xn kzjwf utxngqj, xj mfgíf ij rfsifw vzj
snslzst kzjwf txfit f ywfyfw ij qfx htxfx ijq lwfs its Vznotyj, xn st kzjxj
Hnij Mfrjyj, xz uwnrjw fzytw, gnjs fxí htrt rfsió Fqjofsiwt vzj snslzst
kzjxj txfit f wjywfyfwqj xnst Fujqjx.

-Wjywáyjrj jq vzj vznxnjwj -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt st rj rfqywfyj; vzj
rzhmfx ajhjx xzjqj hfjwxj qf ufhnjshnf hzfsit qf hfwlfs ij nsozwnfx.

-Snslzsf -inot its Ozfs- xj qj uzjij mfhjw fq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij vznjs éq
st xj uzjif ajslfw, xn st qf wjufwf js jq jxhzit ij xz ufhnjshnf, vzj, f rn
ufwjhjw, jx kzjwyj d lwfsij.

Js jxyfx d tywfx uqáynhfx xj ufxó lwfs ufwyj ij qf sthmj; d, fzsvzj its
Ozfs vznxnjwf vzj its Vznotyj qjdjwf ráx ijq qngwt, utw ajw qt vzj
inxhfsyfgf, st qt uzinjwts fhfgfw hts éq, inhnjsit vzj éq qt ifgf utw qjíit
d qt htsknwrfgf utw ytit sjhnt, d vzj st vzjwíf, xn fhfxt qqjlfxj f stynhnf
ij xz fzytw vzj qj mfgíf yjsnit js xzx rfstx, xj fqjlwfxj hts ujsxfw vzj qj
mfgíf qjíit; uzjx ij qfx htxfx tgxhjsfx d ytwujx, qtx ujsxfrnjsytx xj mfs
ij fufwyfw, hzfsyt ráx qtx totx. Uwjlzsyáwtsqj vzj fiósij qqjafgf
ijyjwrnsfit xz anfoj. Wjxutsinó vzj f Efwfltef, f mfqqfwxj js qfx ozxyfx
ijq fwséx, vzj js fvzjqqf hnzifi xzjqjs mfhjwxj ytitx qtx fñtx. Iíotqj
its Ozfs vzj fvzjqqf szjaf mnxytwnf htsyfgf htrt its Vznotyj, xjf vznjs
xj vznxnjwj, xj mfgíf mfqqfit js jqqf js zsf xtwynof, kfqyf ij nsajshnós,
utgwj ij qjywfx, utgwíxnrf ij qngwjfx, fzsvzj wnhf ij xnruqnhnifijx.

-Utw jq rnxrt hfxt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, st utsiwé qtx unjx js Efwfltef,
d fxí xfhfwé f qf uqfef ijq rzsit qf rjsynwf ijxj mnxytwnfitw rtijwst, d
jhmfwás ij ajw qfx ljsyjx htrt dt st xtd jq its Vznotyj vzj éq inhj.

-Mfwá rzd gnjs -inot its Ojwósnrt-; d tywfx ozxyfx mfd js Gfwhjqtsf, itsij
utiwá jq xjñtw its Vznotyj rtxywfw xz afqtw.

-Fxí qt unjsxt mfhjw -inot its Vznotyj-; d azjxfx rjwhjijx rj ijs qnhjshnf,
uzjx df jx mtwf ufwf nwrj fq qjhmt, d rj yjslfs d utslfs js jq súrjwt ij
xzx rfdtwjx frnltx d xjwanitwjx.

-D f rí yfrgnés -inot Xfshmt-: vzneá xjwé gzjst ufwf fqlt.

Hts jxyt xj ijxuninjwts, d its Vznotyj d Xfshmt xj wjynwfwts f xz futxjsyt,
ijofsit f its Ozfs d f its Ojwósnrt firnwfitx ij ajw qf rjehqf vzj mfgíf
mjhmt ij xz inxhwjhnós d ij xz qthzwf; d ajwifijwfrjsyj hwjdjwts vzj éxytx
jwfs qtx ajwifijwtx its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, d st qtx vzj ijxhwngíf xz fzytw
fwfltséx.

Rfiwzló its Vznotyj, d, ifsit ltqujx fq yfgnvzj ijq tywt futxjsyt, xj
ijxuninó ij xzx mzéxujijx. Ufló Xfshmt fq ajsyjwt rflsíknhfrjsyj, d
fhtsxjoóqj vzj fqfgfxj rjstx qf uwtanxnós ij xz ajsyf, t qf yzanjxj ráx
uwtajíif.





Hfuíyzqt QC. Ij qt vzj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj djsit f Gfwhjqtsf


Jwf kwjxhf qf rfñfsf, d ifgf rzjxywfx ij xjwqt fxnrjxrt jq iíf js vzj its
Vznotyj xfqnó ij qf ajsyf, nsktwrásitxj uwnrjwt hzáq jwf jq ráx ijwjhmt
hfrnst ufwf nw f Gfwhjqtsf xns ythfw js Efwfltef: yfq jwf jq ijxjt vzj
yjsíf ij xfhfw rjsynwtxt fvzjq szjat mnxytwnfitw vzj yfsyt ijhífs vzj qj
anyzujwfgf.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj js ráx ij xjnx iífx st qj xzhjinó htxf inlsf ij utsjwxj
js jxhwnyzwf, fq hfgt ij qtx hzfqjx, djsit kzjwf ij hfrnst, qj ytró qf
sthmj jsywj zsfx jxujxfx jshnsfx t fqhtwstvzjx; vzj js jxyt st lzfwif qf
uzsyzfqnifi Hnij Mfrjyj vzj js tywfx htxfx xzjqj.

Fujáwtsxj ij xzx gjxynfx frt d rtet, d, fhtrtiásitxj f qtx ywtshtx ij qtx
áwgtqjx, Xfshmt, vzj mfgíf rjwjsifit fvzjq iíf, xj ijoó jsywfw ij wtsiós
utw qfx uzjwyfx ijq xzjñt; ujwt its Vznotyj, f vznjs ijxajqfgfs xzx
nrflnsfhntsjx rzhmt ráx vzj qf mfrgwj, st utiíf ujlfw xzx totx; fsyjx ngf d
ajsíf hts jq ujsxfrnjsyt utw rnq lésjwtx ij qzlfwjx. Df qj ufwjhíf mfqqfwxj
js qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx; df ajw gwnshfw d xzgnw xtgwj xz utqqnsf f qf
htsajwynif js qfgwfitwf Izqhnsjf; df vzj qj xtsfgfs js qtx tíitx qfx
ufqfgwfx ijq xfgnt Rjwqís vzj qj wjkjwífs qfx htsinhntsjx d inqnljshnfx vzj
xj mfgífs ij mfhjw d yjsjw js jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf. Ijxjxujwágfxj ij
ajw qf kqtojifi d hfwnifi uthf ij Xfshmt xz jxhzijwt, uzjx, f qt vzj hwjíf,
xtqtx hnsht fetyjx xj mfgíf ifit, súrjwt ijxnlzfq d ujvzjñt ufwf qtx
nsknsnytx vzj qj kfqyfgfs; d ijxyt wjhngnó yfsyf ujxfizrgwj d jstot, vzj
mnet jxyj inxhzwxt:

-Xn szit ltwinfst htwyó jq Rflst Fqjofsiwt, inhnjsit: ''Yfsyt rtsyf htwyfw
htrt ijxfyfw'', d st utw jxt ijoó ij xjw zsnajwxfq xjñtw ij ytif qf Fxnf,
sn ráx sn rjstx utiwíf xzhjijw fmtwf js jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf, xn dt
fetyfxj f Xfshmt f ujxfw xzdt; vzj xn qf htsinhnós ijxyj wjrjint jxyá js
vzj Xfshmt wjhngf qtx ywjx rnq d yfsytx fetyjx, ¿vzé xj rj if f rí vzj xj
qtx ié éq, t vzj xj qtx ié tywt, uzjx qf xzxyfshnf jxyá js vzj éq qtx
wjhngf, qqjlzjs utw it qqjlfwjs?

Hts jxyf nrflnsfhnós xj qqjló f Xfshmt, mfgnjsit uwnrjwt ytrfit qfx wnjsifx
ij Wthnsfsyj, d fhtrtiáitqfx js rtit vzj uzinjxj fetyfwqj hts jqqfx,
htrjseóqj f vznyfw qfx hnsyfx, vzj jx tunsnós vzj st yjsíf ráx vzj qf
ijqfsyjwf, js vzj xj xzxyjsyfgfs qtx lwjlzjxhtx; ujwt, fujsfx mzgt qqjlfit,
hzfsit Xfshmt ijxujwyó js ytit xz fhzjwit, d inot:

-¿Vzé jx jxyt? ¿Vznés rj ythf d ijxjshnsyf?

-Dt xtd -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj ajslt f xzuqnw yzx kfqyfx d f wjrjinfw
rnx ywfgfotx: aésltyj f fetyfw, Xfshmt, d f ijxhfwlfw, js ufwyj, qf ijzif f
vzj yj tgqnlfxyj. Izqhnsjf ujwjhj; yú anajx js ijxhznit; dt rzjwt ijxjfsit;
d fxí, ijxfyáhfyj utw yz atqzsyfi, vzj qf ríf jx ij ifwyj js jxyf xtqjifi,
utw qt rjstx, itx rnq fetyjx.

-Jxt st -inot Xfshmt-; azjxf rjwhji xj jxyé vzjit; xn st, utw Intx
ajwifijwt vzj stx mfs ij tíw qtx xtwitx. Qtx fetyjx f vzj dt rj tgqnlzé mfs
ij xjw atqzsyfwntx, d st utw kzjwef, d fmtwf st yjslt lfsf ij fetyfwrj;
gfxyf vzj itd f azjxf rjwhji rn ufqfgwf ij afuzqfwrj d rtxvzjfwrj hzfsit js
atqzsyfi rj ansnjwj.

-St mfd ijofwqt f yz htwyjxíf, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj jwjx izwt
ij htwfeós, d, fzsvzj anqqfst, gqfsit ij hfwsjx.

D fxí, uwthzwfgf d uzlsfgf utw ijxjsqfefwqj. Anjsit qt hzfq Xfshmt Ufsef,
xj uzxt js unj, d, fwwjrjynjsit f xz frt, xj fgwfeó hts éq f gwfet ufwynit,
d, jhmásitqj zsf efshfinqqf, int hts éq js jq xzjqt gthf fwwngf; uúxtqj
qf wtinqqf ijwjhmf xtgwj jq ujhmt, d hts qfx rfstx qj yjsíf qfx rfstx, ij
rtit vzj sn qj ijofgf wtijfw sn fqjsyfw. Its Vznotyj qj ijhíf:

-¿Hórt, ywfnitw? ¿Htsywf yz frt d xjñtw sfyzwfq yj ijxrfsifx? ¿Hts vznjs yj
if xz ufs yj fywjajx?

-Sn vznyt wjd, sn utslt wjd -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xnst fdúitrj f rí, vzj xtd
rn xjñtw. Azjxf rjwhji rj uwtrjyf vzj xj jxyfwá vzjit, d st ywfyfwá ij
fetyfwrj utw fltwf, vzj dt qj ijofwé qngwj d ijxjrgfwfefit; itsij st,

Fvzí rtwnwáx, ywfnitw,

jsjrnlt ij itñf Xfshmf.

Uwtrjynóxjqt its Vznotyj, d ozwó utw anif ij xzx ujsxfrnjsytx st ythfwqj js
jq ujqt ij qf wtuf, d vzj ijofwíf js ytif xz atqzsyfi d fqgjiwít jq
fetyfwxj hzfsit vznxnjxj.

Qjafsyóxj Xfshmt, d ijxanóxj ij fvzjq qzlfw zs gzjs jxufhnt; d, djsit f
fwwnrfwxj f tywt áwgtq, xnsynó vzj qj ythfgfs js qf hfgjef, d, fqefsit qfx
rfstx, ytuó hts itx unjx ij ujwxtsf, hts efufytx d hfqefx. Yjrgqó ij rnjit;
fhzinó f tywt áwgtq, d xzhjinóqj qt rjxrt. Int athjx qqfrfsit f its Vznotyj
vzj qj kfatwjhnjxj. Míetqt fxí its Vznotyj, d, uwjlzsyásitqj vzé qj mfgíf
xzhjinit d ij vzé yjsíf rnjit, qj wjxutsinó Xfshmt vzj ytitx fvzjqqtx
áwgtqjx jxyfgfs qqjstx ij unjx d ij unjwsfx mzrfsfx. Yjsyóqtx its Vznotyj,
d hfdó qzjlt js qf hzjsyf ij qt vzj utiíf xjw, d iíotqj f Xfshmt:

-St ynjsjx ij vzé yjsjw rnjit, utwvzj jxytx unjx d unjwsfx vzj ynjsyfx d st
ajjx, xns izif xts ij fqlzstx ktwfonitx d gfsitqjwtx vzj js jxytx áwgtqjx
jxyás fmtwhfitx; vzj utw fvzí qtx xzjqj fmtwhfw qf ozxynhnf hzfsit qtx
htlj, ij ajnsyj js ajnsyj d ij ywjnsyf js ywjnsyf; utw itsij rj itd f
jsyjsijw vzj ijgt ij jxyfw hjwhf ij Gfwhjqtsf.

D fxí jwf qf ajwifi htrt éq qt mfgíf nrflnsfit.

Fq ufwjhjw fqefwts qtx totx, d anjwts qtx wfhnrtx ij fvzjqqtx áwgtqjx, vzj
jwfs hzjwutx ij gfsitqjwtx. Df, js jxyt, frfsjhíf, d xn qtx rzjwytx qtx
mfgífs jxufsyfit, st rjstx qtx fywngzqfwts ráx ij hzfwjsyf gfsitqjwtx anatx
vzj ij nruwtanxt qjx wtijfwts, inhnésitqjx js qjslzf hfyfqfsf vzj
jxyzanjxjs vzjitx, d xj ijyzanjxjs, mfxyf vzj qqjlfxj xz hfunyás.

Mfqqóxj its Vznotyj f unj, xz hfgfqqt xns kwjst, xz qfsef fwwnrfif f zs
áwgtq, d, knsfqrjsyj, xns ijkjsxf fqlzsf; d fxí, yzat utw gnjs ij hwzefw
qfx rfstx j nshqnsfw qf hfgjef, lzfwiásitxj ufwf rjotw xfeós d htdzsyzwf.

Fhzinjwts qtx gfsitqjwtx f jxuzqlfw fq wzhnt, d f st ijofwqj snslzsf htxf
ij hzfsyfx js qfx fqktwofx d qf rfqjyf ywfíf; d faístqj gnjs f Xfshmt vzj
js zsf ajsywjwf vzj yjsíf hjñnif ajsífs qtx jxhzitx ijq izvzj d qtx vzj
mfgífs xfhfit ij xz ynjwwf, d, hts ytit jxt, fvzjqqf gzjsf ljsyj qj
jxhfwifwf d qj rnwfwf mfxyf qt vzj jsywj jq hzjwt d qf hfwsj yzanjwf
jxhtsinit, xn st qqjlfwf js fvzjqqf xfeós xz hfunyás, jq hzfq rtxywó xjw ij
mfxyf jifi ij ywjnsyf d hzfywt fñtx, wtgzxyt, ráx vzj ij rjinfsf
uwtutwhnós, ij rnwfw lwfaj d htqtw rtwjsf. Ajsíf xtgwj zs utijwtxt hfgfqqt,
ajxynif qf fhjwfif htyf, d hts hzfywt unxytqjyjx -vzj js fvzjqqf ynjwwf xj
qqfrfs ujiwjñfqjx- f qtx qfitx. Ant vzj xzx jxhzijwtx, vzj fxí qqfrfs f qtx
vzj fsifs js fvzjq jojwhnhnt, ngfs f ijxutofw f Xfshmt Ufsef; rfsióqjx vzj
st qt mnhnjxjs, d kzj qzjlt tgjijhnit; d fxí xj jxhfuó qf ajsywjwf.
Firnwóqj ajw qfsef fwwnrfif fq áwgtq, jxhzit js jq xzjqt, d f its Vznotyj
fwrfit d ujsxfynat, hts qf ráx ywnxyj d rjqfshóqnhf knlzwf vzj uzinjwf
ktwrfw qf rnxrf ywnxyjef. Qqjlóxj f éq inhnésitqj:

-St jxyénx yfs ywnxyj, gzjs mtrgwj, utwvzj st mfgénx hfíit js qfx rfstx ij
fqlús hwzjq Txnwnx, xnst js qfx ij Wtvzj Lznsfwy, vzj ynjsjs ráx ij
htrufxnafx vzj ij wnlzwtxfx.

-St jx rn ywnxyjef -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- mfgjw hfíit js yz utijw, ¡tm
afqjwtxt Wtvzj, hzdf kfrf st mfd qírnyjx js qf ynjwwf vzj qf jshnjwwjs!,
xnst utw mfgjw xnit yfq rn ijxhznit, vzj rj mfdfs htlnit yzx xtqifitx xns
jq kwjst, jxyfsit dt tgqnlfit, xjlús qf twijs ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, vzj
uwtkjxt, f ananw htsynst fqjwyf, xnjsit f ytifx mtwfx hjsynsjqf ij rí
rnxrt; utwvzj yj mflt xfgjw, ¡tm lwfs Wtvzj!, vzj xn rj mfqqfwfs xtgwj rn
hfgfqqt, hts rn qfsef d hts rn jxhzit, st qjx kzjwf rzd káhnq wjsinwrj,
utwvzj dt xtd its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, fvzjq vzj ij xzx mfefñfx ynjsj
qqjst ytit jq twgj.

Qzjlt Wtvzj Lznsfwy htsthnó vzj qf jskjwrjifi ij its Vznotyj ythfgf ráx js
qthzwf vzj js afqjsyíf, d, fzsvzj fqlzsfx ajhjx qj mfgíf tíit strgwfw,
szshf yzat utw ajwifi xzx mjhmtx, sn xj uzit ujwxzfinw f vzj xjrjofsyj
mzrtw wjnsfxj js htwfeós ij mtrgwj; d mtqlóxj js jxywjrt ij mfgjwqj
jshtsywfit, ufwf ythfw ij hjwhf qt vzj ij qjotx iéq mfgíf tíit; d fxí, qj
inot:

-Afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt, st tx ijxujhménx sn yjslánx f xnsnjxywf ktwyzsf éxyf
js vzj tx mfqqánx, vzj utiíf xjw vzj js jxytx ywtunjetx azjxywf ytwhnif
xzjwyj xj jsijwjefxj; vzj jq hnjqt, utw jxywfñtx d szshf anxytx wtijtx, ij
qtx mtrgwjx st nrflnsfitx, xzjqj qjafsyfw qtx hfíitx d jswnvzjhjw qtx
utgwjx.

Df qj ngf f ifw qfx lwfhnfx its Vznotyj, hzfsit xnsynjwts f xzx jxufqifx zs
wznit htrt ij ywtujq ij hfgfqqtx, d st jwf xnst zs xtqt, xtgwj jq hzfq
ajsíf f ytif kzwnf zs rfshjgt, fq ufwjhjw ij mfxyf ajnsyj fñtx, ajxynit ij
ifrfxht ajwij, hts ufxfrfstx ij twt, lwjlzjxhtx d xfqyfjrgfwhf, hts
xtrgwjwt yjwhnfit, f qf afqtsf, gtyfx jshjwfifx d ozxyfx, jxuzjqfx, iflf d
jxufif itwfifx, zsf jxhtujyf ujvzjñf js qfx rfstx d itx unxytqfx f qtx
qfitx. Fq wznit atqanó Wtvzj qf hfgjef d ant jxyf mjwrtxf knlzwf, qf hzfq,
js qqjlfsit f éq, inot:

-Js yz gzxhf ajsíf, ¡tm afqjwtxt Wtvzj!, ufwf mfqqfw js yn, xn st wjrjint,
f qt rjstx fqnant js rn ijxinhmf; d, utw st yjsjwyj xzxujsxt, utwvzj xé vzj
st rj mfx htsthnit, vznjwt ijhnwyj vznés xtd: d xtd Hqfzinf Ojwósnrf, mnof
ij Xnrós Ktwyj, yz xnslzqfw frnlt d jsjrnlt ufwynhzqfw ij Hqfzvzjq
Ytwwjqqfx, vzj fxnrnxrt qt jx yzdt, utw xjw zst ij qtx ij yz htsywfwnt
gfsit; d df xfgjx vzj jxyj Ytwwjqqfx ynjsj zs mnot vzj its Anhjsyj
Ytwwjqqfx xj qqfrf, t, f qt rjstx, xj qqfrfgf st mf itx mtwfx. Éxyj, uzjx,
utw fgwjanfw jq hzjsyt ij rn ijxajsyzwf, yj inwé js gwjajx ufqfgwfx qf vzj
rj mf hfzxfit. Antrj, wjvzjgwórj, jxhzhméqj, jsfrtwérj, f mzwyt ij rn
ufiwj; utwvzj st mfd rzojw, utw wjynwfif vzj jxyé d wjhfyfif vzj xjf, f
vznjs st qj xtgwj ynjrut ufwf utsjw js jojhzhnós d jkjhyt xzx fywtujqqfitx
ijxjtx. Knsfqrjsyj, éq rj uwtrjynó ij xjw rn jxutxt, d dt qj in qf ufqfgwf
ij xjw xzdf, xns vzj js tgwfx ufxáxjrtx fijqfsyj. Xzuj fdjw vzj, tqanifit
ij qt vzj rj ijgíf, xj hfxfgf hts tywf, d vzj jxyf rfñfsf ngf f ijxutxfwxj,
szjaf vzj rj yzwgó jq xjsynit d fhfgó qf ufhnjshnf; d, utw st jxyfw rn
ufiwj js jq qzlfw, qj yzaj dt ij utsjwrj js jq ywfoj vzj ajjx, d
fuwjxzwfsit jq ufxt f jxyj hfgfqqt, fqhfshé f its Anhjsyj tgwf ij zsf qjlzf
ij fvzí; d, xns utsjwrj f ifw vzjofx sn f tíw inxhzqufx, qj inxufwé jxyfx
jxhtujyfx, d, utw fñfinizwf, jxyfx itx unxytqfx; d, f qt vzj hwjt, qj ijgí
ij jshjwwfw ráx ij itx gfqfx js jq hzjwut, fgwnésitqj uzjwyfx utw itsij
jsazjqyf js xz xfslwj xfqnjxj rn mtswf. Fqqí qj ijot jsywj xzx hwnfitx, vzj
st txfwts sn uzinjwts utsjwxj js xz ijkjsxf. Ajslt f gzxhfwyj ufwf vzj rj
ufxjx f Kwfshnf, itsij yjslt ufwnjsyjx hts vznjs anaf, d fxnrjxrt f wtlfwyj
ijknjsifx f rn ufiwj, utwvzj qtx rzhmtx ij its Anhjsyj st xj fywjafs f
ytrfw js éq ijxfktwfif ajslfsef.

Wtvzj, firnwfit ij qf lfqqfwiíf, gnefwwíf, gzjs yfqqj d xzhjxt ij qf
mjwrtxf Hqfzinf, qj inot:

-Ajs, xjñtwf, d afrtx f ajw xn jx rzjwyt yz jsjrnlt, vzj ijxuzéx ajwjrtx qt
vzj ráx yj nrutwyfwj.

Its Vznotyj, vzj jxyfgf jxhzhmfsit fyjsyfrjsyj qt vzj Hqfzinf mfgíf inhmt d
qt vzj Wtvzj Lznsfwy wjxutsinó, inot:

-St ynjsj sfinj ufwf vzé ytrfw ywfgfot js ijkjsijw f jxyf xjñtwf, vzj qt
ytrt dt f rn hfwlt: ijsrj rn hfgfqqt d rnx fwrfx, d jxuéwjsrj fvzí, vzj dt
nwé f gzxhfw f jxj hfgfqqjwt, d, rzjwyt t anat, qj mfwé hzruqnw qf ufqfgwf
uwtrjynif f yfsyf gjqqjef.

-Sfinj izij ij jxyt -inot Xfshmt-, utwvzj rn xjñtw ynjsj rzd gzjsf rfst
ufwf hfxfrjsyjwt, uzjx st mf rzhmtx iífx vzj mnet hfxfw f tywt vzj yfrgnés
sjlfgf f tywf itshjqqf xz ufqfgwf; d xn st kzjwf utwvzj qtx jshfsyfitwjx
vzj qj ujwxnlzjs qj rzifwts xz ajwifijwf knlzwf js qf ij zs qfhfdt, éxyf
kzjwf qf mtwf vzj df qf yfq itshjqqf st qt kzjwf.

Wtvzj, vzj fyjsiíf ráx f ujsxfw js jq xzhjxt ij qf mjwrtxf Hqfzinf vzj js
qfx wfetsjx ij frt d rtet, st qfx jsyjsinó; d, rfsifsit f xzx jxhzijwtx vzj
atqanjxjs f Xfshmt ytit hzfsyt qj mfgífs vznyfit ijq wzhnt, rfsiásitqjx
fxnrjxrt vzj xj wjynwfxjs f qf ufwyj itsij fvzjqqf sthmj mfgífs jxyfit
fqtofitx, d qzjlt xj ufwynó hts Hqfzinf f ytif uwnjxf f gzxhfw fq mjwnit, t
rzjwyt, its Anhjsyj. Qqjlfwts fq qzlfw itsij qj jshtsywó Hqfzinf, d st
mfqqfwts js éq xnst wjhnés ijwwfrfif xfslwj; ujwt, yjsinjsit qf anxyf utw
ytifx ufwyjx, ijxhzgwnjwts utw zs wjhzjxyt fwwngf fqlzsf ljsyj, d inéwtsxj
f jsyjsijw, htrt jwf qf ajwifi, vzj ijgíf xjw its Anhjsyj, f vznjs xzx
hwnfitx, t rzjwyt t anat, qqjafgfs, t ufwf hzwfwqj, t ufwf jsyjwwfwqj;
inéwtsxj uwnjxf f fqhfsefwqtx, vzj, htrt ngfs ij jxufhnt, hts kfhnqnifi qt
mnhnjwts.

Mfqqfwts f its Anhjsyj js qtx gwfetx ij xzx hwnfitx, f vznjs hts hfsxfif d
ijgnqnyfif ate wtlfgf vzj qj ijofxjs fqqí rtwnw, utwvzj jq itqtw ij qfx
mjwnifx st htsxjsyíf vzj ráx fijqfsyj ufxfxj.

Fwwtoáwtsxj ij qtx hfgfqqtx Hqfzinf d Wtvzj, qqjláwtsxj f éq, yjrnjwts qtx
hwnfitx qf uwjxjshnf ij Wtvzj, d Hqfzinf xj yzwgó js ajw qf ij its Anhjsyj;
d fxí, jsywj jsyjwsjhnif d wnlzwtxf, xj qqjló f éq, d fxnésitqj ij qfx
rfstx, qj inot:

-Xn yú rj injwfx éxyfx, htsktwrj f szjxywt htshnjwyt, szshf yú yj anjwfx js
jxyj ufxt.

Fgwnó qtx hfxn hjwwfitx totx jq mjwnit hfgfqqjwt, d, htsthnjsit f Hqfzinf,
qj inot:

-Gnjs ajt, mjwrtxf d jslfñfif xjñtwf, vzj yú mfx xnit qf vzj rj mfx rzjwyt:
ujsf st rjwjhnif sn ijgnif f rnx ijxjtx, hts qtx hzfqjx, sn hts rnx tgwfx,
ofráx vznxj sn xzuj tkjsijwyj.

-Qzjlt, ¿st jx ajwifi -inot Hqfzinf- vzj ngfx jxyf rfñfsf f ijxutxfwyj hts
Qjtstwf, qf mnof ijq wnht Gfqafxywt?

-St, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó its Anhjsyj-; rn rfqf ktwyzsf yj ijgnó ij qqjafw
jxyfx szjafx, ufwf vzj, hjqtxf, rj vznyfxjx qf anif, qf hzfq, uzjx qf ijot
js yzx rfstx d js yzx gwfetx, yjslt rn xzjwyj utw ajsyzwtxf. D, ufwf
fxjlzwfwyj ijxyf ajwifi, fuwnjyf qf rfst d wjhígjrj utw jxutxt, xn
vznxnjwjx, vzj st yjslt tywf rfdtw xfynxkfhnós vzj ifwyj ijq flwfant vzj
unjsxfx vzj ij rí mfx wjhjgnit.

Fuwjyóqj qf rfst Hqfzinf, d fuwjyóxjqj f jqqf jq htwfeós, ij rfsjwf vzj
xtgwj qf xfslwj d ujhmt ij its Anhjsyj xj vzjió ijxrfdfif, d f éq qj ytró
zs rtwyfq ufwfxnxrt. Htskzxt jxyfgf Wtvzj, d st xfgíf vzé mfhjwxj.
Fhzinjwts qtx hwnfitx f gzxhfw flzf vzj jhmfwqjx js qtx wtxywtx, d
ywzoéwtsqf, hts vzj xj qtx gfñfwts. Atqanó ij xz ijxrfdt Hqfzinf, ujwt st
ij xz ufwfxnxrt its Anhjsyj, utwvzj xj qj fhfgó qf anif. Anxyt qt hzfq ij
Hqfzinf, mfgnésitxj jsyjwfit vzj df xz izqhj jxutxt st anaíf, wtrunó qtx
fnwjx hts xzxunwtx, mnwnó qtx hnjqtx hts vzjofx, rfqywfyó xzx hfgjqqtx,
jsywjlásitqtx fq anjsyt, fkjó xz wtxywt hts xzx uwtunfx rfstx, hts ytifx
qfx rzjxywfx ij itqtw d xjsynrnjsyt vzj ij zs qfxynrfit ujhmt uzinjwfs
nrflnsfwxj.

-¡Tm hwzjq j nshtsxnijwfif rzojw -ijhíf-, hts vzé kfhnqnifi yj rtanxyj f
utsjw js jojhzhnós yfs rfq ujsxfrnjsyt! ¡Tm kzjwef wfgntxf ij qtx hjqtx, f
vzé ijxjxujwfit kns htsizhíx f vznjs tx if fhtlnif js xz ujhmt! ¡Tm jxutxt
rít, hzdf ijxinhmfif xzjwyj, utw xjw uwjsif ríf, yj mf qqjafit ijq yáqfrt f
qf xjuzqyzwf!

Yfqjx d yfs ywnxyjx jwfs qfx vzjofx ij Hqfzinf, vzj xfhfwts qfx qálwnrfx ij
qtx totx ij Wtvzj, st fhtxyzrgwfitx f ajwyjwqfx js snslzsf thfxnós.
Qqtwfgfs qtx hwnfitx, ijxrfdágfxj f hfif ufxt Hqfzinf, d ytit fvzjq
hnwhznyt ufwjhíf hfrut ij ywnxyjef d qzlfw ij ijxlwfhnf. Knsfqrjsyj, Wtvzj
Lznsfwy twijsó f qtx hwnfitx ij its Anhjsyj vzj qqjafxjs xz hzjwut fq qzlfw
ij xz ufiwj, vzj jxyfgf fqqí hjwhf, ufwf vzj qj injxjs xjuzqyzwf. Hqfzinf
inot f Wtvzj vzj vzjwwíf nwxj f zs rtsfxyjwnt itsij jwf fgfijxf zsf yíf
xzdf, js jq hzfq ujsxfgf fhfgfw qf anif, ij tywt rjotw jxutxt d ráx jyjwst
fhtrufñfif. Fqfgóqj Wtvzj xz gzjs uwtuóxnyt, tkwjhnóxjqj ij fhtrufñfwqf
mfxyf itsij vznxnjxj, d ij ijkjsijw f xz ufiwj ij qtx ufwnjsyjx d ij ytit
jq rzsit, xn tkjsijwqj vznxnjxj. St vznxt xz htrufñíf Hqfzinf, js snslzsf
rfsjwf, d, flwfijhnjsit xzx tkwjhnrnjsytx hts qfx rjotwjx wfetsjx vzj xzut,
xj ijxujinó iéq qqtwfsit. Qtx hwnfitx ij its Anhjsyj qqjafwts xz hzjwut, d
Wtvzj xj atqanó f qtx xzdtx, d jxyj kns yzanjwts qtx frtwjx ij Hqfzinf
Ojwósnrf. Ujwt, ¿vzé rzhmt, xn yjonjwts qf ywfrf ij xz qfrjsyfgqj mnxytwnf
qfx kzjwefx nsajshngqjx d wnlzwtxfx ij qtx hjqtx?

Mfqqó Wtvzj Lznsfwy f xzx jxhzijwtx js qf ufwyj itsij qjx mfgíf twijsfit, d
f its Vznotyj jsywj jqqtx, xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, mfhnésitqjx zsf uqáynhf js vzj
qjx ujwxzfiíf ijofxjs fvzjq rtit ij ananw yfs ujqnlwtxt, fxí ufwf jq fqrf
htrt ufwf jq hzjwut; ujwt, htrt qtx ráx jwfs lfxhtsjx, ljsyj wúxynhf d
ijxgfwfyfif, st qjx jsywfgf gnjs qf uqáynhf ij its Vznotyj. Qqjlfit vzj kzj
Wtvzj, uwjlzsyó f Xfshmt Ufsef xn qj mfgífs azjqyt d wjxynyznit qfx fqmfofx
d uwjxjfx vzj qtx xzdtx ijq wzhnt qj mfgífs vznyfit. Xfshmt wjxutsinó vzj
xí, xnst vzj qj kfqyfgfs ywjx ythfitwjx, vzj afqífs ywjx hnzifijx.

-¿Vzé jx qt vzj inhjx, mtrgwj? -inot zst ij qtx uwjxjsyjx-, vzj dt qtx
yjslt, d st afqjs ywjx wjfqjx.

-Fxí jx -inot its Vznotyj-, ujwt jxyírfqtx rn jxhzijwt js qt vzj mf inhmt,
utw mfgéwrjqtx ifit vznjs rj qtx int.

Rfsióxjqtx atqajw fq uzsyt Wtvzj Lznsfwy, d, rfsifsit utsjw qtx xzdtx js
fqf, rfsió ywfjw fqqí ijqfsyj ytitx qtx ajxynitx, otdfx, d insjwtx, d ytit
fvzjqqt vzj ijxij qf úqynrf wjufwynhnós mfgífs wtgfit; d, mfhnjsit
gwjajrjsyj jq yfsyjt, atqanjsit qt st wjufwyngqj d wjizhnésitqt f insjwtx,
qt wjufwynó utw ytif xz htrufñíf, hts yfsyf qjlfqnifi d uwzijshnf vzj st
ufxó zs uzsyt sn ijkwfzió sfif ij qf ozxynhnf inxywngzynaf. Mjhmt jxyt, hts
qt hzfq ytitx vzjifwts htsyjsytx, xfynxkjhmtx d uflfitx, inot Wtvzj f its
Vznotyj:

-Xn st xj lzfwifxj jxyf uzsyzfqnifi hts éxytx, st xj utiwíf ananw hts
jqqtx.

F qt vzj inot Xfshmt:

-Xjlús qt vzj fvzí mj anxyt, jx yfs gzjsf qf ozxynhnf, vzj jx sjhjxfwnf vzj
xj zxj fzs jsywj qtx rjxrtx qfiwtsjx.

Tdóqt zs jxhzijwt, d jsfwgtqó jq rthmt ij zs fwhfgze, hts jq hzfq, xns
izif, qj fgwnjwf qf hfgjef f Xfshmt, xn Wtvzj Lznsfwy st qj injwf athjx vzj
xj ijyzanjxj. Ufxróxj Xfshmt, d uwtuzxt ij st ijxhtxjw qtx qfgntx js yfsyt
vzj jsywj fvzjqqf ljsyj jxyzanjxj.

Qqjló, js jxyt, zst t fqlzstx ij fvzjqqtx jxhzijwtx vzj jxyfgfs uzjxytx utw
hjsynsjqfx utw qtx hfrnstx ufwf ajw qf ljsyj vzj utw jqqtx ajsíf d ifw
fanxt f xz rfdtw ij qt vzj ufxfgf, d éxyj inot:

-Xjñtw, st qjotx ij fvzí, utw jq hfrnst vzj af f Gfwhjqtsf, anjsj zs lwfs
ywtujq ij ljsyj.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Wtvzj:

-¿Mfx jhmfit ij ajw xn xts ij qtx vzj stx gzxhfs, t ij qtx vzj stxtywtx
gzxhfrtx?

-St, xnst ij qtx vzj gzxhfrtx -wjxutsinó jq jxhzijwt.

-Uzjx xfqni ytitx -wjuqnhó Wtvzj-, d ywféirjqtx fvzí qzjlt, xns vzj xj tx
jxhfuj snslzst.

Mnhnéwtsqt fxí, d, vzjiásitxj xtqtx its Vznotyj, Xfshmt d Wtvzj, flzfwifwts
f ajw qt vzj qtx jxhzijwtx ywfífs; d, js jxyj jsywjyfsyt, inot Wtvzj f its
Vznotyj:

-Szjaf rfsjwf ij anif qj ijgj ij ufwjhjw fq xjñtw its Vznotyj qf szjxywf,
szjafx fajsyzwfx, szjatx xzhjxtx, d ytitx ujqnlwtxtx; d st rj rfwfanqqt vzj
fxí qj ufwjehf, utwvzj wjfqrjsyj qj htsknjxt vzj st mfd rtit ij ananw ráx
nsvznjyt sn ráx xtgwjxfqyfit vzj jq szjxywt. F rí rj mfs uzjxyt js éq st xé
vzé ijxjtx ij ajslfsef, vzj ynjsjs kzjwef ij yzwgfw qtx ráx xtxjlfitx
htwfetsjx; dt, ij rn sfyzwfq, xtd htrufxnat d gnjs nsyjshntsfit; ujwt, htrt
yjslt inhmt, jq vzjwjw ajslfwrj ij zs flwfant vzj xj rj mnet, fxí if hts
ytifx rnx gzjsfx nshqnsfhntsjx js ynjwwf, vzj ujwxjajwt js jxyj jxyfit, f
ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij qt vzj jsynjsit; d, htrt zs fgnxrt qqfrf f tywt d zs
ujhfit f tywt ujhfit, mfsxj jxqfgtsfit qfx ajslfsefx ij rfsjwf vzj st xóqt
qfx rífx, ujwt qfx fojsfx ytrt f rn hfwlt; ujwt Intx jx xjwanit ij vzj,
fzsvzj rj ajt js qf rnyfi ijq qfgjwnsyt ij rnx htskzxntsjx, st unjwit qf
jxujwfsef ij xfqnw iéq f uzjwyt xjlzwt.

Firnwfit vzjió its Vznotyj ij tíw mfgqfw f Wtvzj yfs gzjsfx d htshjwyfifx
wfetsjx, utwvzj éq xj ujsxfgf vzj, jsywj qtx ij tknhntx xjrjofsyjx ij
wtgfw, rfyfw d xfqyjfw st utiíf mfgjw fqlzst vzj yzanjxj gzjs inxhzwxt, d
wjxutsinóqj:

-Xjñtw Wtvzj, jq uwnshnunt ij qf xfqzi jxyá js htsthjw qf jskjwrjifi d js
vzjwjw ytrfw jq jskjwrt qfx rjinhnsfx vzj jq réinht qj twijsf: azjxywf
rjwhji jxyá jskjwrt, htsthj xz itqjshnf, d jq hnjqt, t Intx, utw rjotw
ijhnw, vzj jx szjxywt réinht, qj fuqnhfwá rjinhnsfx vzj qj xfsjs, qfx
hzfqjx xzjqjs xfsfw utht f utht d st ij wjujsyj d utw rnqflwt; d ráx, vzj
qtx ujhfitwjx inxhwjytx jxyás ráx hjwhf ij jsrjsifwxj vzj qtx xnruqjx; d,
uzjx azjxywf rjwhji mf rtxywfit js xzx wfetsjx xz uwzijshnf, st mfd xnst
yjsjw gzjs ásnrt d jxujwfw rjotwíf ij qf jskjwrjifi ij xz htshnjshnf; d xn
azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj fmtwwfw hfrnst d utsjwxj hts kfhnqnifi js jq ij xz
xfqafhnós, aéslfxj htsrnlt, vzj dt qj jsxjñfwé f xjw hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj,
itsij xj ufxfs yfsytx ywfgfotx d ijxajsyzwfx vzj, ytrásitqfx utw
ujsnyjshnf, js itx ufqjyfx qj utsiwás js jq hnjqt.

Wnóxj Wtvzj ijq htsxjot ij its Vznotyj, f vznjs, rzifsit uqáynhf, htsyó jq
ywálnht xzhjxt ij Hqfzinf Ojwósnrf, ij vzj qj ujxó js jxywjrt f Xfshmt, vzj
st qj mfgíf ufwjhnit rfq qf gjqqjef, ijxjsatqyzwf d gwít ij qf rtef.

Qqjlfwts, js jxyt, qtx jxhzijwtx ij qf uwjxf, ywfdjsit htsxnlt itx
hfgfqqjwtx f hfgfqqt, d itx ujwjlwnstx f unj, d zs hthmj ij rzojwjx hts
mfxyf xjnx hwnfitx, vzj f unj d f hfgfqqt qfx fhtrufñfgfs, hts tywtx itx
rtetx ij rzqfx vzj qtx hfgfqqjwtx ywfífs. Htlnéwtsqtx qtx jxhzijwtx js
rjint, lzfwifsit ajshnitx d ajshjitwjx lwfs xnqjshnt, jxujwfsit f vzj jq
lwfs Wtvzj Lznsfwy mfgqfxj, jq hzfq uwjlzsyó f qtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj vznés
jwfs d fiósij ngfs, d vzé insjwt qqjafgfs. Zst ijqqtx qj wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw, stxtywtx xtrtx itx hfunyfsjx ij nskfsyjwíf jxufñtqf; yjsjrtx
szjxywfx htrufñífx js Sáutqjx d afrtx f jrgfwhfwstx js hzfywt lfqjwfx, vzj
inhjs jxyás js Gfwhjqtsf hts twijs ij ufxfw f Xnhnqnf; qqjafrtx mfxyf
ithnjsytx t ywjhnjsytx jxhzitx, hts vzj, f szjxywt ufwjhjw, afrtx wnhtx d
htsyjsytx, uzjx qf jxywjhmjef twinsfwnf ij qtx xtqifitx st ujwrnyj rfdtwjx
yjxtwtx.

Uwjlzsyó Wtvzj f qtx ujwjlwnstx qt rjxrt vzj f qtx hfunyfsjx; kzjqj
wjxutsinit vzj ngfs f jrgfwhfwxj ufwf ufxfw f Wtrf, d vzj jsywj jsywfrgtx
utiífs qqjafw mfxyf xjxjsyf wjfqjx. Vznxt xfgjw yfrgnés vznés ngf js jq
hthmj, d fiósij, d jq insjwt vzj qqjafgfs; d zst ij qtx ij f hfgfqqt inot:

-Rn xjñtwf itñf Lzntrfw ij Vznñtsjx, rzojw ijq wjljsyj ij qf Anhfwíf ij
Sáutqjx, hts zsf mnof ujvzjñf, zsf itshjqqf d zsf izjñf, xts qfx vzj afs js
jq hthmj; fhtrufñártxqf xjnx hwnfitx, d qtx insjwtx xts xjnxhnjsytx
jxhzitx.

-Ij rtit -inot Wtvzj Lznsfwy-, vzj df yjsjrtx fvzí stajhnjsytx jxhzitx d
xjxjsyf wjfqjx; rnx xtqifitx ijgjs ij xjw mfxyf xjxjsyf; ríwjxj f hórt qj
hfgj f hfif zst, utwvzj dt xtd rfq htsyfitw.

Tdjsit ijhnw jxyt qtx xfqyjfitwjx, qjafsyfwts qf ate, inhnjsit:

-¡Anaf Wtvzj Lznsfwy rzhmtx fñtx, f ujxfw ij qtx qqfiwjx vzj xz ujwinhnós
uwthzwfs!

Rtxywfwts fkqnlnwxj qtx hfunyfsjx, jsywnxyjhnóxj qf xjñtwf wjljsyf, d st xj
mtqlfwts sfif qtx ujwjlwnstx, anjsit qf htsknxhfhnós ij xzx gnjsjx. Yúatqtx
fxí zs wfyt xzxujsxtx Wtvzj, ujwt st vznxt vzj ufxfxj fijqfsyj xz ywnxyjef,
vzj df xj utiíf htsthjw f ynwt ij fwhfgze, d, atqanésitxj f qtx hfunyfsjx,
inot:

-Azjxfx rjwhjijx, xjñtwjx hfunyfsjx, utw htwyjxíf, xjfs xjwanitx ij
uwjxyfwrj xjxjsyf jxhzitx, d qf xjñtwf wjljsyf thmjsyf, ufwf htsyjsyfw
jxyf jxhzfiwf vzj rj fhtrufñf, utwvzj jq fgfi, ij qt vzj hfsyf dfsyf, d
qzjlt uzéijsxj nw xz hfrnst qngwj d ijxjrgfwfefifrjsyj, hts zs xfqathtsizyt
vzj dt qjx ifwé, ufwf vzj, xn ytufwjs tywfx ij fqlzsfx jxhzfiwfx rífx vzj
yjslt inaninifx utw jxytx htsytwstx, st qjx mflfs ifñt; vzj st jx rn
nsyjshnós ij flwfanfw f xtqifitx sn f rzojw fqlzsf, jxujhnfqrjsyj f qfx vzj
xts uwnshnufqjx.

Nsknsnyfx d gnjs inhmfx kzjwts qfx wfetsjx hts vzj qtx hfunyfsjx
flwfijhnjwts f Wtvzj xz htwyjxíf d qngjwfqnifi, vzj, utw yfq qf yzanjwts,
js ijofwqjx xz rnxrt insjwt. Qf xjñtwf itñf Lzntrfw ij Vznñtsjx xj vznxt
fwwtofw ijq hthmj ufwf gjxfw qtx unjx d qfx rfstx ijq lwfs Wtvzj, ujwt éq
st qt htsxnsynó js snslzsf rfsjwf; fsyjx qj uninó ujwiós ijq flwfant vzj qj
mfhíf, ktwefit ij hzruqnw hts qfx tgqnlfhntsjx uwjhnxfx ij xz rfq tknhnt.
Rfsió qf xjñtwf wjljsyf f zs hwnfit xzdt injxj qzjlt qtx thmjsyf jxhzitx
vzj qj mfgífs wjufwynit, d df qtx hfunyfsjx mfgífs ijxjrgtqxfit qtx
xjxjsyf. Ngfs qtx ujwjlwnstx f ifw ytif xz rnxjwnf, ujwt Wtvzj qjx inot vzj
xj jxyzanjxjs vzjitx, d atqanésitxj f qtx xzdtx, qjx inot:

-Ijxytx jxhzitx itx ythfs f hfif zst, d xtgwfs ajnsyj: qtx inje xj ijs f
jxytx ujwjlwnstx, d qtx tywtx inje f jxyj gzjs jxhzijwt, utwvzj uzjif ijhnw
gnjs ij jxyf fajsyzwf.

D, ywfdésitqj fijwjet ij jxhwngnw, ij vzj xnjruwj fsifgf uwtajíit, Wtvzj
qjx int utw jxhwnyt zs xfqathtsizyt ufwf qtx rfdtwfqjx ij xzx jxhzfiwfx, d,
ijxuninésitxj ijqqtx, qtx ijoó nw qngwjx, d firnwfitx ij xz stgqjef, ij xz
lfqqfwif inxutxnhnós d jxywfñt uwthjijw, yjsnésitqj ráx utw zs Fqjofsiwt
Rflst vzj utw qfiwós htsthnit. Zst ij qtx jxhzijwtx inot js xz qjslzf
lfxhtsf d hfyfqfsf:

-Jxyj szjxywt hfunyás ráx jx ufwf kwfij vzj ufwf gfsitqjwt: xn ij fvzí
fijqfsyj vznxnjwj rtxywfwxj qngjwfq xéfqt hts xz mfhnjsif d st hts qf
szjxywf.

St qt inot yfs ufxt jq ijxajsyzwfit vzj ijofxj ij tíwqt Wtvzj, jq hzfq,
jhmfsit rfst f qf jxufif, qj fgwnó qf hfgjef hfxn js itx ufwyjx,
inhnésitqj:

-Ijxyf rfsjwf hfxynlt dt f qtx ijxqjslzfitx d fywjanitx.

Ufxráwtsxj ytitx, d snslzst qj txó ijhnw ufqfgwf: yfsyf jwf qf tgjinjshnf
vzj qj yjsífs.

Fufwyóxj Wtvzj f zsf ufwyj d jxhwngnó zsf hfwyf f zs xz frnlt, f Gfwhjqtsf,
iásitqj fanxt htrt jxyfgf htsxnlt jq kfrtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, fvzjq
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj ij vznjs yfsyfx htxfx xj ijhífs; d vzj qj mfhíf xfgjw vzj
jwf jq ráx lwfhntxt d jq ráx jsyjsinit mtrgwj ijq rzsit, d vzj ij fqqí f
hzfywt iífx, vzj jwf jq ij Xfs Ozfs Gfzynxyf, xj qj utsiwíf js rnyfi ij qf
uqfdf ij qf hnzifi, fwrfit ij ytifx xzx fwrfx, xtgwj Wthnsfsyj, xz hfgfqqt,
d f xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt xtgwj zs fxst, d vzj injxj stynhnf ijxyt f xzx
frnltx qtx Snfwwtx, ufwf vzj hts éq xj xtqfefxjs; vzj éq vznxnjwf vzj
hfwjhnjwfs ijxyj lzxyt qtx Hfijqqx, xzx htsywfwntx, ujwt vzj jxyt jwf
nrutxngqj, f hfzxf vzj qfx qthzwfx d inxhwjhntsjx ij its Vznotyj d qtx
itsfnwjx ij xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt Ufsef st utiífs ijofw ij ifw lzxyt ljsjwfq f
ytit jq rzsit. Ijxufhmó jxyfx hfwyfx hts zst ij xzx jxhzijwtx, vzj, rzifsit
jq ywfoj ij gfsitqjwt js jq ij zs qfgwfitw, jsywó js Gfwhjqtsf d qf int f
vznjs ngf.





Hfuíyzqt QCN. Ij qt vzj qj xzhjinó f its Vznotyj js qf jsywfif ij
Gfwhjqtsf, hts tywfx htxfx vzj ynjsjs ráx ij qt ajwifijwt vzj ij qt
inxhwjyt


Ywjx iífx d ywjx sthmjx jxyzat its Vznotyj hts Wtvzj, d xn jxyzanjwf
ywjhnjsytx fñtx, st qj kfqyfwf vzé rnwfw d firnwfw js jq rtit ij xz anif:
fvzí frfsjhífs, fhzqqá htrífs; zsfx ajhjx mzífs, xns xfgjw ij vznés, d
tywfx jxujwfgfs, xns xfgjw f vznés. Itwrífs js unj, nsyjwwtrunjsit jq
xzjñt, rziásitxj ij zs qzlfw f tywt. Ytit jwf utsjw jxuífx, jxhzhmfw
hjsynsjqfx, xtuqfw qfx hzjwifx ij qtx fwhfgzhjx, fzsvzj ywfífs uthtx,
utwvzj ytitx xj xjwaífs ij ujiwjñfqjx. Wtvzj ufxfgf qfx sthmjx fufwyfit ij
qtx xzdtx, js ufwyjx d qzlfwjx itsij jqqtx st uzinjxjs xfgjw iósij jxyfgf;
utwvzj qtx rzhmtx gfsitx vzj jq anxtwwjd ij Gfwhjqtsf mfgíf jhmfit xtgwj xz
anif qj ywfífs nsvznjyt d yjrjwtxt, d st xj txfgf knfw ij snslzst, yjrnjsit
vzj qtx rnxrtx xzdtx, t qj mfgífs ij rfyfw, t jsywjlfw f qf ozxynhnf: anif,
utw hnjwyt, rnxjwfgqj d jskfitxf.

Js kns, utw hfrnstx ijxzxfitx, utw fyfotx d xjsifx jshzgnjwyfx, ufwynjwts
Wtvzj, its Vznotyj d Xfshmt hts tywtx xjnx jxhzijwtx f Gfwhjqtsf. Qqjlfwts
f xz uqfdf qf aíxujwf ij Xfs Ozfs js qf sthmj, d, fgwfefsit Wtvzj f its
Vznotyj d f Xfshmt, f vznjs int qtx inje jxhzitx uwtrjynitx, vzj mfxyf
jsytshjx st xj qtx mfgíf ifit, qtx ijoó, hts rnq tkwjhnrnjsytx vzj ij qf
zsf f qf tywf ufwyj xj mnhnjwts.

Atqanóxj Wtvzj; vzjióxj its Vznotyj jxujwfsit jq iíf, fxí, f hfgfqqt, htrt
jxyfgf, d st yfwió rzhmt hzfsit htrjseó f ijxhzgwnwxj utw qtx gfqhtsjx ijq
Twnjsyj qf kfe ij qf gqfshf fzwtwf, fqjlwfsit qfx djwgfx d qfx kqtwjx, js
qzlfw ij fqjlwfw jq tíit; fzsvzj fq rjxrt nsxyfsyj fqjlwfwts yfrgnés jq
tíit jq xts ij rzhmfx hmnwnrífx d fyfgfqjx, wznit ij hfxhfgjqjx, ''¡ywfuf,
ywfuf, fufwyf, fufwyf!'' ij htwwjitwjx, vzj, fq ufwjhjw, ij qf hnzifi
xfqífs. Int qzlfw qf fzwtwf fq xtq, vzj, zs wtxywt rfdtw vzj jq ij zsf
wtijqf, utw jq ráx gfot mtwnetsyj, utht f utht, xj ngf qjafsyfsit.

Yjsinjwts its Vznotyj d Xfshmt qf anxyf utw ytifx ufwyjx: anjwts jq rfw,
mfxyf jsytshjx ijqqtx st anxyt; ufwjhnóqjx jxufhntxíxnrt d qfwlt, mfwyt ráx
vzj qfx qflzsfx ij Wznijwf, vzj js qf Rfshmf mfgífs anxyt; anjwts qfx
lfqjwfx vzj jxyfgfs js qf uqfdf, qfx hzfqjx, fgfynjsit qfx ynjsifx, xj
ijxhzgwnjwts qqjsfx ij kqárzqfx d lfqqfwijyjx, vzj ywjrtqfgfs fq anjsyt d
gjxfgfs d gfwwífs jq flzf; ijsywt xtsfgfs hqfwnsjx, ywtrujyfx d hmnwnrífx,
vzj hjwhf d qjotx qqjsfgfs jq fnwj ij xzfajx d gjqnhtxtx fhjsytx.
Htrjsefwts f rtajwxj d f mfhjw rtit ij jxhfwfrzef utw qfx xtxjlfifx flzfx,
htwwjxutsinésitqjx hfxn fq rnxrt rtit nsknsnytx hfgfqqjwtx vzj ij qf hnzifi
xtgwj mjwrtxtx hfgfqqtx d hts anxytxfx qngwjfx xfqífs. Qtx xtqifitx ij qfx
lfqjwfx inxufwfgfs nsknsnyf fwynqqjwíf, f vznjs wjxutsiífs qtx vzj jxyfgfs
js qfx rzwfqqfx d kzjwyjx ij qf hnzifi, d qf fwynqqjwíf lwzjxf hts
jxufsytxt jxywzjsit wtruíf qtx anjsytx, f vznjs wjxutsiífs qtx hfñtsjx ij
hwzoíf ij qfx lfqjwfx. Jq rfw fqjlwj, qf ynjwwf othzsif, jq fnwj hqfwt,
xóqt yfq aje yzwgnt ijq mzrt ij qf fwynqqjwíf, ufwjhj vzj ngf nskzsinjsit d
jsljsiwfsit lzxyt xúgnyt js ytifx qfx ljsyjx.

St utiíf nrflnsfw Xfshmt hórt uzinjxjs yjsjw yfsytx unjx fvzjqqtx gzqytx
vzj utw jq rfw xj rtaífs. Js jxyt, qqjlfwts htwwnjsit, hts lwnyf, qnqnqíjx
d fqlfefwf, qtx ij qfx qngwjfx fitsij its Vznotyj xzxujsxt d fyósnyt
jxyfgf, d zst ijqqtx, vzj jwf jq fanxfit ij Wtvzj, inot js fqyf ate f its
Vznotyj:

-Gnjs xjf ajsnit f szjxywf hnzifi jq jxujot, jq kfwtq, qf jxywjqqf d jq
stwyj ij ytif qf hfgfqqjwíf fsifsyj, itsij ráx qfwlfrjsyj xj htsynjsj. Gnjs
xjf ajsnit, inlt, jq afqjwtxt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf: st jq kfqxt, st jq
knhynhnt, st jq fuóhwnkt vzj js kfqxfx mnxytwnfx jxytx iífx stx mfs
rtxywfit, xnst jq ajwifijwt, jq qjlfq d jq knjq vzj stx ijxhwngnó Hnij
Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn, kqtw ij qtx mnxytwnfitwjx.

St wjxutsinó its Vznotyj ufqfgwf, sn qtx hfgfqqjwtx jxujwfwts f vzj qf
wjxutsinjxj, xnst, atqanésitxj d wjatqanésitxj hts qtx ijráx vzj qtx
xjlzífs, htrjsefwts f mfhjw zs wjazjqyt hfwfhtq fq ijwwjitw ij its Vznotyj;
jq hzfq, atqanésitxj f Xfshmt, inot:

-Éxytx gnjs stx mfs htsthnit: dt futxyfwé vzj mfs qjíit szjxywf mnxytwnf d
fzs qf ijq fwfltséx wjhnés nruwjxf.

Atqanó tywf aje jq hfgfqqjwt vzj mfgqó f its Vznotyj, d iíotqj:

-Azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw its Vznotyj, xj ajslf hts stxtywtx, vzj ytitx xtrtx
xzx xjwanitwjx d lwfsijx frnltx ij Wtvzj Lznsfwy.

F qt vzj its Vznotyj wjxutsinó:

-Xn htwyjxífx jsljsiwfs htwyjxífx, qf azjxywf, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, jx mnof t
ufwnjsyf rzd hjwhfsf ij qfx ijq lwfs Wtvzj. Qqjafirj it vznxnéwjijx, vzj dt
st yjsiwé tywf atqzsyfi vzj qf azjxywf, d ráx xn qf vzjwénx thzufw js
azjxywt xjwanhnt.

Hts ufqfgwfx st rjstx htrjinifx vzj éxyfx qj wjxutsinó jq hfgfqqjwt, d,
jshjwwásitqj ytitx js rjint, fq xts ij qfx hmnwnrífx d ij qtx fyfgfqjx, xj
jshfrnsfwts hts éq f qf hnzifi, fq jsywfw ij qf hzfq, jq rfqt, vzj ytit qt
rfqt twijsf, d qtx rzhmfhmtx, vzj xts ráx rfqtx vzj jq rfqt, itx ijqqtx
ywfanjxtx d fywjanitx xj jsywfwts utw ytif qf ljsyj, d, fqefsit jq zst ij
qf htqf ijq wzhnt d jq tywt qf ij Wthnsfsyj, qjx uzxnjwts d jshfofwts
xjsitx rfstotx ij fqnflfx. Xnsynjwts qtx utgwjx fsnrfqjx qfx szjafx
jxuzjqfx, d, fuwjyfsit qfx htqfx, fzrjsyfwts xz inxlzxyt, ij rfsjwf vzj,
ifsit rnq htwhtatx, injwts hts xzx izjñtx js ynjwwf. Its Vznotyj, htwwnit d
fkwjsyfit, fhzinó f vznyfw jq uqzrfoj ij qf htqf ij xz rfyfqtyj, d Xfshmt,
jq ij xz wzhnt. Vznxnjwfs qtx vzj lznfgfs f its Vznotyj hfxynlfw jq
fywjanrnjsyt ij qtx rzhmfhmtx, d st kzj utxngqj, utwvzj xj jshjwwfwts jsywj
ráx ij tywtx rnq vzj qtx xjlzífs.

Atqanjwts f xzgnw its Vznotyj d Xfshmt; hts jq rnxrt fuqfzxt d rúxnhf
qqjlfwts f qf hfxf ij xz lzíf, vzj jwf lwfsij d uwnshnufq, js kns, htrt ij
hfgfqqjwt wnht; itsij qj ijofwjrtx utw fltwf, utwvzj fxí qt vznjwj Hnij
Mfrjyj.





Hfuíyzqt QCNN. Vzj ywfyf ij qf fajsyzwf ij qf hfgjef jshfsyfif, hts tywfx
snñjwífx vzj st uzjijs ijofw ij htsyfwxj


Its Fsytsnt Rtwjst xj qqfrfgf jq mzéxuji ij its Vznotyj, hfgfqqjwt wnht d
inxhwjyt, d frnlt ij mtqlfwxj f qt mtsjxyt d fkfgqj, jq hzfq, anjsit js xz
hfxf f its Vznotyj, fsifgf gzxhfsit rtitx htrt, xns xz ujwoznhnt, xfhfxj f
uqfef xzx qthzwfx; utwvzj st xts gzwqfx qfx vzj izjqjs, sn mfd ufxfynjrutx
vzj afqlfs xn xts hts ifñt ij yjwhjwt. Qt uwnrjwt vzj mnet kzj mfhjw
ijxfwrfw f its Vznotyj d xfhfwqj f anxyfx hts fvzjq xz jxywjhmt d fhfrzefit
ajxynit -htrt df tywfx ajhjx qj mjrtx ijxhwnyt d unsyfit- f zs gfqhós vzj
xfqíf f zsf hfqqj ij qfx ráx uwnshnufqjx ij qf hnzifi, f anxyf ij qfx
ljsyjx d ij qtx rzhmfhmtx, vzj htrt f rtsf qj rnwfgfs. Htwwnjwts ij szjat
ijqfsyj iéq qtx ij qfx qngwjfx, htrt xn ufwf éq xtqt, st ufwf fqjlwfw fvzjq
kjxynat iíf, xj qfx mzgnjwfs uzjxyt; d Xfshmt jxyfgf htsyjsyíxnrt, utw
ufwjhjwqj vzj xj mfgíf mfqqfit, xns xfgjw hórt sn hórt st, tywfx gtifx ij
Hfrfhmt, tywf hfxf htrt qf ij its Injlt ij Rnwfsif d tywt hfxynqqt htrt jq
ijq izvzj.

Htrnjwts fvzjq iíf hts its Fsytsnt fqlzstx ij xzx frnltx, mtswfsit ytitx d
ywfyfsit f its Vznotyj htrt f hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, ij qt hzfq, mzjht d
utrutxt, st hfgíf js xí ij htsyjsyt. Qtx itsfnwjx ij Xfshmt kzjwts yfsytx,
vzj ij xz gthf fsifgfs htrt htqlfitx ytitx qtx hwnfitx ij hfxf d ytitx
hzfsytx qj tífs. Jxyfsit f qf rjxf, inot its Fsytsnt f Xfshmt:

-Fhá yjsjrtx stynhnf, gzjs Xfshmt, vzj xtnx yfs frnlt ij rfsofw gqfsht d ij
fqgtsinlznqqfx, vzj, xn tx xtgwfs, qfx lzfwiánx js jq xjst ufwf jq tywt
iíf.

-St, xjñtw, st jx fxí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj yjslt ráx ij qnrunt vzj ij
ltqtxt, d rn xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj jxyá ijqfsyj, xfgj gnjs vzj hts zs uzñt
ij gjqqtyfx, t ij szjhjx, stx xtqjrtx ufxfw jsywfrgtx thmt iífx. Ajwifi jx
vzj xn yfq aje rj xzhjij vzj rj ijs qf afvznqqf, htwwt hts qf xtlznqqf;
vznjwt ijhnw vzj htrt qt vzj rj ifs, d zxt ij qtx ynjrutx htrt qtx mfqqt; d
vznjsvznjwf vzj mzgnjwj inhmt vzj dt xtd htrjitw fajsyfofit d st qnrunt,
yéslfxj utw inhmt vzj st fhnjwyf; d ij tywf rfsjwf inojwf jxyt xn st rnwfwf
f qfx gfwgfx mtswfifx vzj jxyás f qf rjxf.

-Utw hnjwyt -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj qf ufwxnrtsnf d qnrunjef hts vzj Xfshmt
htrj xj uzjij jxhwngnw d lwfgfw js qárnsfx ij gwtshj, ufwf vzj vzjij js
rjrtwnf jyjwsf ij qtx xnlqtx ajsnijwtx. Ajwifi jx vzj, hzfsit éq ynjsj
mfrgwj, ufwjhj fqlt ywflós, utwvzj htrj fuwnjxf d rfxhf f itx hfwwnqqtx;
ujwt qf qnrunjef xnjruwj qf ynjsj js xz uzsyt, d js jq ynjrut vzj kzj
ltgjwsfitw fuwjsinó f htrjw f qt rjqnsiwtxt: yfsyt, vzj htríf hts yjsjitw
qfx zafx d fzs qtx lwfstx ij qf lwfsfif.

-¡Hórt! -inot its Fsytsnt-. ¿Ltgjwsfitw mf xnit Xfshmt?

-Xí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, d ij zsf ísxzqf qqfrfif qf Gfwfyfwnf. Inje iífx qf
ltgjwsé f ujinw ij gthf; js jqqtx ujwií jq xtxnjlt, d fuwjsií f ijxuwjhnfw
ytitx qtx ltgnjwstx ijq rzsit; xfqí mzdjsit ijqqf, hfí js zsf hzjaf, itsij
rj yzaj utw rzjwyt, ij qf hzfq xfqí anat utw rnqflwt.

Htsyó its Vznotyj utw rjszit ytit jq xzhjxt ijq ltgnjwst ij Xfshmt, hts vzj
int lwfs lzxyt f qtx tdjsyjx.

Qjafsyfitx qtx rfsyjqjx, d ytrfsit its Fsytsnt utw qf rfst f its Vznotyj,
xj jsywó hts éq js zs fufwyfit futxjsyt, js jq hzfq st mfgíf tywf htxf ij
fitwst vzj zsf rjxf, fq ufwjhjw ij ofxuj, vzj xtgwj zs unj ij qt rjxrt xj
xtxyjsíf, xtgwj qf hzfq jxyfgf uzjxyf, fq rtit ij qfx hfgjefx ij qtx
jrujwfitwjx wtrfstx, ij qtx ujhmtx fwwngf, zsf vzj xjrjofgf xjw ij gwtshj.
Ufxjóxj its Fsytsnt hts its Vznotyj utw ytit jq futxjsyt, wtijfsit rzhmfx
ajhjx qf rjxf, ijxuzéx ij qt hzfq inot:

-Fltwf, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj jxytd jsyjwfit vzj st stx tdj d jxhzhmf
fqlzst, d jxyá hjwwfif qf uzjwyf, vznjwt htsyfw f azjxywf rjwhji zsf ij qfx
ráx wfwfx fajsyzwfx, t, utw rjotw ijhnw, stajifijx vzj nrflnsfwxj uzjijs,
hts htsinhnós vzj qt vzj f azjxywf rjwhji inojwj qt mf ij ijutxnyfw js qtx
úqynrtx wjywjyjx ijq xjhwjyt.

-Fxí qt ozwt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d fzs qj jhmfwé zsf qtxf jshnrf, ufwf
ráx xjlzwnifi; utwvzj vznjwt vzj xjuf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Fsytsnt
-vzj df xfgíf xz strgwj-, vzj jxyá mfgqfsit hts vznjs, fzsvzj ynjsj tíitx
ufwf tíw, st ynjsj qjslzf ufwf mfgqfw; fxí vzj, hts xjlzwnifi uzjij azjxywf
rjwhji ywfxqfifw qt vzj ynjsj js xz ujhmt js jq rít d mfhjw hzjsyf vzj qt
mf fwwtofit js qtx fgnxrtx ijq xnqjshnt.

-Js kjj ij jxf uwtrjxf -wjxutsinó its Fsytsnt-, vznjwt utsjw f azjxywf
rjwhji js firnwfhnós hts qt vzj anjwj d tdjwj, d ifwrj f rí fqlús fqnant ij
qf ujsf vzj rj hfzxf st yjsjw hts vznjs htrzsnhfw rnx xjhwjytx, vzj st xts
ufwf knfwxj ij ytitx.

Xzxujsxt jxyfgf its Vznotyj, jxujwfsit js vzé mfgífs ij ufwfw yfsyfx
uwjajshntsjx. Js jxyt, ytrásitqj qf rfst its Fsytsnt, xj qf ufxjó utw qf
hfgjef ij gwtshj d utw ytif qf rjxf, d utw jq unj ij ofxuj xtgwj vzj xj
xtxyjsíf, d qzjlt inot:

-Jxyf hfgjef, xjñtw its Vznotyj, mf xnit mjhmf d kfgwnhfif utw zst ij qtx
rfdtwjx jshfsyfitwjx d mjhmnhjwtx vzj mf yjsnit jq rzsit, vzj hwjt jwf
utqfht ij sfhnós d inhíuzqt ijq kfrtxt Jxhtynqqt, ij vznjs yfsyfx
rfwfanqqfx xj hzjsyfs; jq hzfq jxyzat fvzí js rn hfxf, d utw uwjhnt ij rnq
jxhzitx vzj qj in, qfgwó jxyf hfgjef, vzj ynjsj uwtunjifi d anwyzi ij
wjxutsijw f hzfsyfx htxfx fq tíit qj uwjlzsyfwjs. Lzfwió wzrgtx, unsyó
hfwáhyjwjx, tgxjwaó fxywtx, rnwó uzsytx, d, knsfqrjsyj, qf xfhó hts qf
ujwkjhnós vzj ajwjrtx rfñfsf, utwvzj qtx anjwsjx jxyá rzif, d mtd, vzj qt
jx, stx mf ij mfhjw jxujwfw mfxyf rfñfsf. Js jxyj ynjrut utiwá azjxywf
rjwhji uwjajsnwxj ij qt vzj vzjwwá uwjlzsyfw, vzj utw jxujwnjshnf xé vzj
inhj ajwifi js hzfsyt wjxutsij.

Firnwfit vzjió its Vznotyj ij qf anwyzi d uwtunjifi ij qf hfgjef, d jxyzat
utw st hwjjw f its Fsytsnt; ujwt, utw ajw hzás utht ynjrut mfgíf ufwf mfhjw
qf jcujwnjshnf, st vznxt ijhnwqj tywf htxf xnst vzj qj flwfijhíf jq mfgjwqj
ijxhzgnjwyt yfs lwfs xjhwjyt. Xfqnjwts ijq futxjsyt, hjwwó qf uzjwyf its
Fsytsnt hts qqfaj, d kzéwtsxj f qf xfqf, itsij qtx ijráx hfgfqqjwtx
jxyfgfs. Js jxyj ynjrut qjx mfgíf htsyfit Xfshmt rzhmfx ij qfx fajsyzwfx d
xzhjxtx vzj f xz frt mfgífs fhtsyjhnit.

Fvzjqqf yfwij xfhfwts f ufxjfw f its Vznotyj, st fwrfit, xnst ij wúf,
ajxynit zs gfqfsiwás ij ufñt qjtsfit, vzj uzinjwf mfhjw xzifw js fvzjq
ynjrut fq rnxrt djqt. Twijsfwts hts xzx hwnfitx vzj jsywjyzanjxjs f Xfshmt
ij rtit vzj st qj ijofxjs xfqnw ij hfxf. Ngf its Vznotyj, st xtgwj
Wthnsfsyj, xnst xtgwj zs lwfs rfhmt ij ufxt qqfst, d rzd gnjs fijwjefit.
Uzxnéwtsqj jq gfqfsiwás, d js qfx jxufqifx, xns vzj qt anjxj, qj htxnjwts
zs ufwlfrnst, itsij qj jxhwngnjwts hts qjywfx lwfsijx: Éxyj jx its Vznotyj
ij qf Rfshmf. Js htrjsefsit jq ufxjt, qqjafgf jq wéyzqt qtx totx ij hzfsytx
ajsífs f ajwqj, d htrt qjífs: Éxyj jx its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, firnwágfxj
its Vznotyj ij ajw vzj hzfsytx qj rnwfgfs qj strgwfgfs d htsthífs; d,
atqanésitxj f its Fsytsnt, vzj ngf f xz qfit, qj inot:

-Lwfsij jx qf uwjwwtlfynaf vzj jshnjwwf js xí qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, uzjx
mfhj htsthnit d kfrtxt fq vzj qf uwtkjxf utw ytitx qtx yéwrnstx ij qf
ynjwwf; xn st, rnwj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Fsytsnt, vzj mfxyf qtx
rzhmfhmtx ijxyf hnzifi, xns szshf mfgjwrj anxyt, rj htsthjs.

-Fxí jx, xjñtw its Vznotyj -wjxutsinó its Fsytsnt-, vzj, fxí htrt jq kzjlt
st uzjij jxyfw jxhtsinit d jshjwwfit, qf anwyzi st uzjij ijofw ij xjw
htsthnif, d qf vzj xj fqhfsef utw qf uwtkjxnós ij qfx fwrfx wjxuqfsijhj d
hfrujf xtgwj ytifx qfx tywfx.

Fhfjhnó, uzjx, vzj, djsit its Vznotyj hts jq fuqfzxt vzj xj mf inhmt, zs
hfxyjqqfst vzj qjdó jq wéyzqt ij qfx jxufqifx, fqeó qf ate, inhnjsit:

-¡Aáqlfyj jq infgqt utw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf! ¿Hórt vzj mfxyf fvzí mfx
qqjlfit, xns mfgjwyj rzjwyt qtx nsknsnytx ufqtx vzj ynjsjx f hzjxyfx? Yz
jwjx qtht, d xn qt kzjwfx f xtqfx d ijsywt ij qfx uzjwyfx ij yz qthzwf,
kzjwf rjstx rfq; ujwt ynjsjx uwtunjifi ij atqajw qthtx d rjsyjhfytx f
hzfsytx yj ywfyfs d htrzsnhfs; xn st, ríwjsqt utw jxytx xjñtwjx vzj yj
fhtrufñfs. Azéqajyj, rjsyjhfyt, f yz hfxf, d rnwf utw yz mfhnjsif, utw yz
rzojw d yzx mnotx, d iéofyj ijxyfx afhnjifijx vzj yj hfwhtrjs jq xjxt d yj
ijxsfyfs jq jsyjsinrnjsyt.

-Mjwrfst -inot its Fsytsnt-, xjlzni azjxywt hfrnst, d st ijnx htsxjotx f
vznjs st tx qtx unij. Jq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf jx rzd hzjwit, d
stxtywtx, vzj qj fhtrufñfrtx, st xtrtx sjhntx; qf anwyzi xj mf ij mtswfw
itsijvznjwf vzj xj mfqqfwj, d fsifi js mtwf rfqf, d st tx rjyánx itsij st
tx qqfrfs.

-Ufwinje, azjxf rjwhji ynjsj wfeós -wjxutsinó jq hfxyjqqfst-, vzj fhtsxjofw
f jxyj gzjs mtrgwj jx ifw hthjx htsywf jq flznoós; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, rj
if rzd lwfs qáxynrf vzj jq gzjs nsljsnt vzj inhjs vzj ynjsj js ytifx qfx
htxfx jxyj rjsyjhfyt xj qj ijxflüj utw qf hfsfq ij xz fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf; d
qf jsmtwfrfqf vzj azjxf rjwhji inot, xjf ufwf rí d ufwf ytitx rnx
ijxhjsinjsyjx xn ij mtd ráx, fzsvzj ananjxj ráx fñtx vzj Rfyzxfqés, injwj
htsxjot f sfinj, fzsvzj rj qt unif.

Fufwyóxj jq htsxjojwt; xnlznó fijqfsyj jq ufxjt; ujwt kzj yfsyf qf uwnjxf
vzj qtx rzhmfhmtx d ytif qf ljsyj yjsíf qjdjsit jq wéyzqt, vzj xj qj mzgt
ij vznyfw its Fsytsnt, htrt vzj qj vznyfgf tywf htxf.

Qqjló qf sthmj, atqanéwtsxj f hfxf; mzgt xfwft ij ifrfx, utwvzj qf rzojw ij
its Fsytsnt, vzj jwf zsf xjñtwf uwnshnufq d fqjlwj, mjwrtxf d inxhwjyf,
htsanió f tywfx xzx frnlfx f vzj ansnjxjs f mtswfw f xz mzéxuji d f lzxyfw
ij xzx szshf anxyfx qthzwfx. Ansnjwts fqlzsfx, hjsóxj jxuqésinifrjsyj d
htrjseóxj jq xfwft hfxn f qfx inje ij qf sthmj. Jsywj qfx ifrfx mfgíf itx
ij lzxyt uíhfwt d gzwqtsfx, d, hts xjw rzd mtsjxyfx, jwfs fqlt
ijxhtruzjxyfx, utw ifw qzlfw vzj qfx gzwqfx fqjlwfxjs xns jskfit. Éxyfx
injwts yfsyf uwnjxf js xfhfw f ifsefw f its Vznotyj, vzj qj rtqnjwts, st
xóqt jq hzjwut, ujwt jq ásnrf. Jwf htxf ij ajw qf knlzwf ij its Vznotyj,
qfwlt, yjsinit, kqfht, frfwnqqt, jxywjhmt js jq ajxynit, ijxfnwfit, d,
xtgwj ytit, st sfif qnljwt. Wjvzjgwágfsqj htrt f mzwyt qfx ifrnxjqfx, d éq,
yfrgnés htrt f mzwyt, qfx ijxijñfgf; ujwt, anésitxj fuwjyfw ij wjvznjgwtx,
fqeó qf ate d inot:

-Kzlnyj, ufwyjx fiajwxfj!: ijofirj js rn xtxnjlt, ujsxfrnjsytx rfq ajsnitx.
Fqqá tx fajsni, xjñtwfx, hts azjxywtx ijxjtx, vzj qf vzj jx wjnsf ij qtx
rítx, qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, st htsxnjsyj vzj snslzstx tywtx vzj
qtx xzdtx rj fafxfqqjs d wnsifs.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, xj xjsyó js rnyfi ij qf xfqf, js jq xzjqt, rtqnit d
vzjgwfsyfit ij yfs gfnqfitw jojwhnhnt. Mnet its Fsytsnt vzj qj qqjafxjs js
ujxt f xz qjhmt, d jq uwnrjwt vzj fxnó iéq kzj Xfshmt, inhnésitqj:

-¡Stwf js yfq, xjñtw szjxywt frt, qt mfgénx gfnqfit! ¿Ujsxánx vzj ytitx qtx
afqnjsyjx xts ifsefitwjx d ytitx qtx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx gfnqfwnsjx? Inlt
vzj xn qt ujsxánx, vzj jxyánx jslfñfit; mtrgwj mfd vzj xj fywjajwá f rfyfw
f zs lnlfsyj fsyjx vzj mfhjw zsf hfgwntqf. Xn mzgnéwfijx ij efufyjfw, dt
xzuqnjwf azjxywf kfqyf, vzj efufyjt htrt zs lnwnkfqyj; ujwt js qt ijq
ifsefw, st itd uzsyfif.

Hts jxyfx d tywfx wfetsjx int vzj wjíw Xfshmt f qtx ijq xfwft, d int hts xz
frt js qf hfrf, fwwtuásitqj ufwf vzj xzifxj qf kwnfqifi ij xz gfnqj.

Tywt iíf qj ufwjhnó f its Fsytsnt xjw gnjs mfhjw qf jcujwnjshnf ij qf
hfgjef jshfsyfif, d hts its Vznotyj, Xfshmt d tywtx itx frnltx, hts qfx itx
xjñtwfx vzj mfgífs rtqnit f its Vznotyj js jq gfnqj, vzj fvzjqqf uwtunf
sthmj xj mfgífs vzjifit hts qf rzojw ij its Fsytsnt, xj jshjwwó js qf
jxyfshnf itsij jxyfgf qf hfgjef. Htsyóqjx qf uwtunjifi vzj yjsíf,
jshfwlóqjx jq xjhwjyt d iíotqjx vzj fvzéq jwf jq uwnrjwt iíf itsij xj mfgíf
ij uwtgfw qf anwyzi ij qf yfq hfgjef jshfsyfif; d xn st jwfs qtx itx frnltx
ij its Fsytsnt, snslzsf tywf ujwxtsf xfgíf jq gzxnqnx ijq jshfsyt, d fzs xn
its Fsytsnt st xj qj mzgnjwf ijxhzgnjwyt uwnrjwt f xzx frnltx, yfrgnés
jqqtx hfdjwfs js qf firnwfhnós js vzj qtx ijráx hfdjwts, xns xjw utxngqj
tywf htxf: hts yfq ywfef d yfq twijs jxyfgf kfgwnhfif.

Jq uwnrjwt vzj xj qqjló fq tíit ij qf hfgjef kzj jq rnxrt its Fsytsnt, d
iíotqj js ate xzrnxf, ujwt st yfsyt vzj ij ytitx st kzjxj jsyjsinif:

-Inrj, hfgjef, utw qf anwyzi vzj js yn xj jshnjwwf: ¿vzé ujsxfrnjsytx yjslt
dt fltwf?

D qf hfgjef qj wjxutsinó, xns rtajw qtx qfgntx, hts ate hqfwf d inxynsyf,
ij rtit vzj kzj ij ytitx jsyjsinif, jxyf wfeós:

-Dt st ozelt ij ujsxfrnjsytx.

Tdjsit qt hzfq, ytitx vzjifwts fyósnytx, d ráx anjsit vzj js ytit jq
futxjsyt sn fq ijwwjitw ij qf rjxf st mfgíf ujwxtsf mzrfsf vzj wjxutsijw
uzinjxj.

-¿Hzásytx jxyfrtx fvzí? -ytwsó f uwjlzsyfw its Fsytsnt.

D kzjqj wjxutsinit utw jq uwtunt yjstw, ufxt:

-Jxyánx yú d yz rzojw, hts itx frnltx yzdtx, d itx frnlfx ijqqf, d zs
hfgfqqjwt kfrtxt qqfrfit its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, d zs xz jxhzijwt vzj
Xfshmt Ufsef ynjsj utw strgwj.

¡Fvzí xí vzj kzj jq firnwfwxj ij szjat, fvzí xí vzj kzj jq jwnefwxj qtx
hfgjqqtx f ytitx ij uzwt jxufsyt! D, fufwyásitxj its Fsytsnt ij qf hfgjef,
inot:

-Jxyt rj gfxyf ufwf ifwrj f jsyjsijw vzj st kzn jslfñfit ijq vzj yj rj
ajsinó, ¡hfgjef xfgnf, hfgjef mfgqfitwf, hfgjef wjxutsitsf d firnwfgqj
hfgjef! Qqjlzj tywt d uwjlúsyjqj qt vzj vznxnjwj.

D, htrt qfx rzojwjx ij twinsfwnt xts uwjxzwtxfx d frnlfx ij xfgjw, qf
uwnrjwf vzj xj qqjló kzj zsf ij qfx itx frnlfx ij qf rzojw ij its Fsytsnt,
d qt vzj qj uwjlzsyó kzj:

-Inrj, hfgjef, ¿vzé mfwé dt ufwf xjw rzd mjwrtxf?

D kzjqj wjxutsinit:

-Xé rzd mtsjxyf.

-St yj uwjlzsyt ráx -inot qf uwjlzsyfsyf.

Qqjló qzjlt qf htrufñjwf, d inot:

-Vzjwwíf xfgjw, hfgjef, xn rn rfwnit rj vznjwj gnjs, t st.

D wjxutsinéwtsqj:

-Rnwf qfx tgwfx vzj yj mfhj, d jhmfwqt mfx ij ajw.

Fufwyóxj qf hfxfif inhnjsit:

-Jxyf wjxuzjxyf st yjsíf sjhjxnifi ij uwjlzsyf, utwvzj, js jkjhyt, qfx
tgwfx vzj xj mfhjs ijhqfwfs qf atqzsyfi vzj ynjsj jq vzj qfx mfhj.

Qzjlt qqjló zst ij qtx itx frnltx ij its Fsytsnt, d uwjlzsyóqj:

-¿Vznés xtd dt?

D kzjqj wjxutsinit:

-Yú qt xfgjx.

-St yj uwjlzsyt jxt -wjxutsinó jq hfgfqqjwt-, xnst vzj rj inlfx xn rj
htsthjx yú.

-Xí htsteht -qj wjxutsinjwts-, vzj jwjx its Ujiwt Stwne.

-St vznjwt xfgjw ráx, uzjx jxyt gfxyf ufwf jsyjsijw, ¡tm hfgjef!, vzj qt
xfgjx ytit.

D, fufwyásitxj, qqjló jq tywt frnlt d uwjlzsyóqj:

-Inrj, hfgjef, ¿vzé ijxjtx ynjsj rn mnot jq rfdtwfelt?

-Df dt mj inhmt -qj wjxutsinjwts- vzj dt st ozelt ij ijxjtx, ujwt, hts ytit
jxt, yj xé ijhnw vzj qtx vzj yz mnot ynjsj xts ij jsyjwwfwyj.

-Jxt jx -inot jq hfgfqqjwt-: qt vzj ajt utw qtx totx, hts jq ijit qt
xjñfqt.

D st uwjlzsyó ráx. Qqjlóxj qf rzojw ij its Fsytsnt, d inot:

-Dt st xé, hfgjef, vzé uwjlzsyfwyj; xóqt vzjwwíf xfgjw ij yn xn ltefwé
rzhmtx fñtx ij gzjs rfwnit.

D wjxutsinéwtsqj:

-Xí ltefwáx, utwvzj xz xfqzi d xz yjruqfsef js jq ananw uwtrjyjs rzhmtx
fñtx ij anif, qf hzfq rzhmtx xzjqjs fhtwyfw utw xz ijxyjruqfsef.

Qqjlóxj qzjlt its Vznotyj, d inot:

-Inrj yú, jq vzj wjxutsijx: ¿kzj ajwifi t kzj xzjñt qt vzj dt hzjsyt vzj rj
ufxó js qf hzjaf ij Rtsyjxnstx? ¿Xjwás hnjwytx qtx fetyjx ij Xfshmt rn
jxhzijwt? ¿Yjsiwá jkjyt jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf?

-F qt ij qf hzjaf -wjxutsinjwts- mfd rzhmt vzj ijhnw: ij ytit ynjsj; qtx
fetyjx ij Xfshmt nwás ij jxufhnt, jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf qqjlfwá f
ijgnif jojhzhnós.

-St vznjwt xfgjw ráx -inot its Vznotyj-; vzj htrt dt ajf f Izqhnsjf
ijxjshfsyfif, mfwé hzjsyf vzj anjsjs ij ltquj ytifx qfx ajsyzwfx vzj
fhjwyfwj f ijxjfw.

Jq úqynrt uwjlzsyfsyj kzj Xfshmt, d qt vzj uwjlzsyó kzj:

-¿Utw ajsyzwf, hfgjef, yjsiwé tywt ltgnjwst? ¿Xfqiwé ij qf jxywjhmjef ij
jxhzijwt? ¿Atqajwé f ajw f rn rzojw d f rnx mnotx?

F qt vzj qj wjxutsinjwts:

-Ltgjwsfwáx js yz hfxf; d xn azjqajx f jqqf, ajwáx f yz rzojw d f yzx
mnotx; d, ijofsit ij xjwanw, ijofwáx ij xjw jxhzijwt.

-¡Gzjst, ufw Intx! -inot Xfshmt Ufsef-. Jxyt dt rj qt inojwf: st inojwf ráx
jq uwtkjyf Ujwtlwzqqt.

-Gjxynf -inot its Vznotyj-, ¿vzé vznjwjx vzj yj wjxutsifs? ¿St gfxyf vzj
qfx wjxuzjxyfx vzj jxyf hfgjef mf ifit htwwjxutsifs f qt vzj xj qj
uwjlzsyf?

-Xí gfxyf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, ujwt vznxnjwf dt vzj xj ijhqfwfwf ráx d rj
inojwf ráx.

Hts jxyt xj fhfgfwts qfx uwjlzsyfx d qfx wjxuzjxyfx, ujwt st xj fhfgó qf
firnwfhnós js vzj ytitx vzjifwts, jchjuyt qtx itx frnltx ij its Fsytsnt,
vzj jq hfxt xfgífs. Jq hzfq vznxt Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn ijhqfwfw qzjlt, utw
st yjsjw xzxujsxt fq rzsit, hwjdjsit vzj fqlús mjhmnhjwt d jcywftwinsfwnt
rnxyjwnt js qf yfq hfgjef xj jshjwwfgf; d fxí, inhj vzj its Fsytsnt Rtwjst,
f nrnyfhnós ij tywf hfgjef vzj ant js Rfiwni, kfgwnhfif utw zs jxyfrujwt,
mnet éxyf js xz hfxf, ufwf jsywjyjsjwxj d xzxujsijw f qtx nlstwfsyjx; d qf
kágwnhf jwf ij jxyf xzjwyj: qf yfgqf ij qf rjxf jwf ij ufqt, unsyfif d
gfwsnefif htrt ofxuj, d jq unj xtgwj vzj xj xtxyjsíf jwf ij qt rjxrt, hts
hzfywt lfwwfx ij álznqf vzj iéq xfqífs, ufwf rfdtw knwrjef ijq ujxt. Qf
hfgjef, vzj ufwjhíf rjifqqf d knlzwf ij jrujwfitw wtrfst, d ij htqtw ij
gwtshj, jxyfgf ytif mzjhf, d sn ráx sn rjstx qf yfgqf ij qf rjxf, js vzj xj
jshfofgf yfs ozxyfrjsyj, vzj snslzsf xjñfq ij ozsyzwf xj ufwjhíf. Jq unj ij
qf yfgqf jwf fsxnrjxrt mzjht, vzj wjxutsiíf f qf lfwlfsyf d ujhmtx ij qf
hfgjef, d ytit jxyt ajsíf f wjxutsijw f tywt futxjsyt vzj ijgfot ij qf
jxyfshnf ij qf hfgjef jxyfgf. Utw ytit jxyj mzjht ij unj, rjxf, lfwlfsyf d
ujhmtx ij qf rjifqqf d knlzwf wjkjwnif xj jshfrnsfgf zs hfñós ij mtof ij
qfyf, rzd ozxyt, vzj ij sfinj utiíf xjw anxyt. Js jq futxjsyt ij fgfot
htwwjxutsinjsyj fq ij fwwngf xj utsíf jq vzj mfgíf ij wjxutsijw, ujlfif qf
gthf hts jq rjxrt hfñós, ij rtit vzj, f rtit ij hjwgfyfsf, ngf qf ate ij
fwwngf fgfot d ij fgfot fwwngf, js ufqfgwfx fwynhzqfifx d hqfwfx; d ij jxyf
rfsjwf st jwf utxngqj htsthjw jq jrgzxyj. Zs xtgwnst ij its Fsytsnt,
jxyzinfsyj flzit d inxhwjyt, kzj jq wjxutsinjsyj; jq hzfq, jxyfsit fanxfit
ij xz xjñtw yít ij qtx vzj mfgífs ij jsywfw hts éq js fvzjq iíf js jq
futxjsyt ij qf hfgjef, qj kzj káhnq wjxutsijw hts uwjxyjef d uzsyzfqnifi f
qf uwnrjwf uwjlzsyf; f qfx ijráx wjxutsinó utw htsojyzwfx, d, htrt
inxhwjyt, inxhwjyfrjsyj. D inhj ráx Hnij Mfrjyj: vzj mfxyf inje t ithj iífx
izwó jxyf rfwfanqqtxf rávznsf; ujwt vzj, inazqlásitxj utw qf hnzifi vzj its
Fsytsnt yjsíf js xz hfxf zsf hfgjef jshfsyfif, vzj f hzfsytx qj uwjlzsyfgfs
wjxutsiíf, yjrnjsit st qqjlfxj f qtx tíitx ij qfx ijxunjwyfx hjsynsjqfx ij
szjxywf Kj, mfgnjsit ijhqfwfit jq hfxt f qtx xjñtwjx nsvznxnitwjx, qj
rfsifwts vzj qt ijxmnhnjxj d st ufxfxj ráx fijqfsyj, utwvzj jq azqlt
nlstwfsyj st xj jxhfsifqnefxj; ujwt js qf tunsnós ij its Vznotyj d ij
Xfshmt Ufsef, qf hfgjef vzjió utw jshfsyfif d utw wjxutsitsf, ráx f
xfynxkfhnós ij its Vznotyj vzj ij Xfshmt.

Qtx hfgfqqjwtx ij qf hnzifi, utw htruqfhjw f its Fsytsnt d utw flfxfofw f
its Vznotyj d ifw qzlfw f vzj ijxhzgwnjxj xzx xfsijhjx, twijsfwts ij htwwjw
xtwynof ij fqqí f xjnx iífx; vzj st yzat jkjhyt utw qf thfxnós vzj xj inwá
fijqfsyj. Intqj lfsf f its Vznotyj ij ufxjfw qf hnzifi f qf qqfsf d f unj,
yjrnjsit vzj, xn ngf f hfgfqqt, qj mfgífs ij ujwxjlznw qtx rthmfhmtx, d
fxí, éq d Xfshmt, hts tywtx itx hwnfitx vzj its Fsytsnt qj int, xfqnjwts f
ufxjfwxj.

Xzhjinó, uzjx, vzj, djsit utw zsf hfqqj, fqeó qtx totx its Vznotyj, d ant
jxhwnyt xtgwj zsf uzjwyf, hts qjywfx rzd lwfsijx: Fvzí xj nruwnrjs qngwtx;
ij qt vzj xj htsyjsyó rzhmt, utwvzj mfxyf jsytshjx st mfgíf anxyt jruwjsyf
fqlzsf, d ijxjfgf xfgjw hórt kzjxj. Jsywó ijsywt, hts ytit xz
fhtrufñfrnjsyt, d ant ynwfw js zsf ufwyj, htwwjlnw js tywf, htrutsjw js
éxyf, jsrjsifw js fvzéqqf, d, knsfqrjsyj, ytif fvzjqqf rávznsf vzj js qfx
jruwjsyfx lwfsijx xj rzjxywf. Qqjlágfxj its Vznotyj f zs hfoós d uwjlzsyfgf
vzé jwf fvzéqqt vzj fqqí xj mfhíf; iágfsqj hzjsyf qtx tknhnfqjx, firnwágfxj
d ufxfgf fijqfsyj. Qqjló js tywfx f zst, d uwjlzsyóqj vzé jwf qt vzj mfhíf.
Jq tknhnfq qj wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw, jxyj hfgfqqjwt vzj fvzí jxyá -d jsxjñóqj f zs mtrgwj ij rzd gzjs
yfqqj d ufwjhjw d ij fqlzsf lwfajifi- mf ywfizhnit zs qngwt ytxhfst js
szjxywf qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf, d jxytdqj dt htrutsnjsit, ufwf ifwqj f qf
jxyfruf.

-¿Vzé yíyzqt ynjsj jq qngwt? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-F qt vzj jq fzytw wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtw, jq qngwt, js ytxhfst, xj qqfrf Qj gflfyjqj.

-D ¿vzé wjxutsij qj gflfyjqj js szjxywt hfxyjqqfst? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-Qj gflfyjqj -inot jq fzytw- jx htrt xn js hfxyjqqfst inoéxjrtx qtx
ozlzjyjx; d, fzsvzj jxyj qngwt jx js jq strgwj mzrnqij, htsynjsj d
jshnjwwf js xí htxfx rzd gzjsfx d xzxyfshnfqjx.

-Dt -inot its Vznotyj- xé fqlús yfsyt ij jq ytxhfst, d rj uwjhnt ij hfsyfw
fqlzsfx jxyfshnfx ijq Fwntxyt. Ujwt iílfrj azjxf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, d st
inlt jxyt utwvzj vznjwt jcfrnsfw jq nsljsnt ij azjxywf rjwhji, xnst utw
hzwntxnifi st ráx: ¿mf mfqqfit js xz jxhwnyzwf fqlzsf aje strgwfw unñfyf?

-Xí, rzhmfx ajhjx -wjxutsinó jq fzytw.

-D ¿hórt qf ywfizhj azjxywf rjwhji js hfxyjqqfst? -uwjlzsyó its Vznotyj.

-¿Hórt qf mfgíf ij ywfizhnw -wjuqnhó jq fzytw-, xnst inhnjsit tqqf?

-¡Hzjwut ij yfq -inot its Vznotyj-, d vzé fijqfsyj jxyá azjxf rjwhji js jq
ytxhfst nintrf! Dt futxyfwé zsf gzjsf fuzjxyf vzj fitsij inlf js jq ytxhfst
unfhmj, inhj azjxf rjwhji js jq hfxyjqqfst uqfhj; d fitsij inlf unù, inhj
ráx, d jq xz ijhqfwf hts fwwngf, d jq lnù hts fgfot.

-Xí ijhqfwt, utw hnjwyt -inot jq fzytw-, utwvzj éxfx xts xzx uwtunfx
htwwjxutsijshnfx.

-Txfwé dt ozwfw -inot its Vznotyj- vzj st jx azjxf rjwhji htsthnit js jq
rzsit, jsjrnlt xnjruwj ij uwjrnfw qtx kqtwnitx nsljsntx sn qtx qtfgqjx
ywfgfotx. ¡Vzé ij mfgnqnifijx mfd ujwinifx utw fmí! ¡Vzé ij nsljsntx
fwwnshtsfitx! ¡Vzé ij anwyzijx rjstxuwjhnfifx! Ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, rj
ufwjhj vzj jq ywfizhnw ij zsf qjslzf js tywf, htrt st xjf ij qfx wjnsfx ij
qfx qjslzfx, lwnjlf d qfynsf, jx htrt vznjs rnwf qtx yfunhjx kqfrjshtx utw
jq wjaéx, vzj, fzsvzj xj ajjs qfx knlzwfx, xts qqjsfx ij mnqtx vzj qfx
jxhzwjhjs, d st xj ajjs hts qf qnxzwf d yje ij qf mfe; d jq ywfizhnw ij
qjslzfx káhnqjx, sn fwlzdj nsljsnt sn jqthzhnós, htrt st qj fwlzdj jq vzj
ywfxqfif sn jq vzj htunf zs ufujq ij tywt ufujq. D st utw jxyt vznjwt
nskjwnw vzj st xjf qtfgqj jxyj jojwhnhnt ijq ywfizhnw; utwvzj js tywfx
htxfx ujtwjx xj utiwíf thzufw jq mtrgwj, d vzj rjstx uwtajhmt qj ywzojxjs.
Kzjwf ijxyf hzjsyf afs qtx itx kfrtxtx ywfizhytwjx: jq zst, jq ithytw
Hwnxyógfq ij Knlzjwtf, js xz Ufxytw Knit, d jq tywt, its Ozfs ij Oázwnlzn,
js xz Frnsyf, itsij kjqnerjsyj utsjs js izif hzáq jx qf ywfizhnós t hzáq jq
twnlnsfq. Ujwt iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji: jxyj qngwt, ¿nruwírjxj utw xz hzjsyf,
t ynjsj df ajsinit jq uwnanqjlnt f fqlús qngwjwt?

-Utw rn hzjsyf qt nruwnrt -wjxutsinó jq fzytw-, d unjsxt lfsfw rnq izhfitx,
utw qt rjstx, hts jxyf uwnrjwf nruwjxnós, vzj mf ij xjw ij itx rnq hzjwutx,
d xj mfs ij ijxufhmfw f xjnx wjfqjx hfif zst, js ifhf qfx ufofx.

-¡Gnjs jxyá azjxf rjwhji js qf hzjsyf! -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-. Gnjs ufwjhj
vzj st xfgj qfx jsywfifx d xfqnifx ij qtx nruwjxtwjx, d qfx
htwwjxutsijshnfx vzj mfd ij zstx f tywtx; dt qj uwtrjyt vzj, hzfsit xj ajf
hfwlfit ij itx rnq hzjwutx ij qngwtx, ajf yfs rtqnit xz hzjwut, vzj xj
jxufsyj, d ráx xn jq qngwt jx zs utht fanjxt d st sfif unhfsyj.

-Uzjx, ¿vzé? -inot jq fzytw-. ¿Vznjwj azjxf rjwhji vzj xj qt ié f zs
qngwjwt, vzj rj ié utw jq uwnanqjlnt ywjx rfwfajiíx, d fús unjsxf vzj rj
mfhj rjwhji js iáwrjqtx? Dt st nruwnrt rnx qngwtx ufwf fqhfsefw kfrf js jq
rzsit, vzj df js éq xtd htsthnit utw rnx tgwfx: uwtajhmt vznjwt, vzj xns éq
st afqj zs hzfywís qf gzjsf kfrf.

-Intx qj ié f azjxf rjwhji gzjsf rfsijwjhmf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj.

D ufxó fijqfsyj f tywt hfoós, itsij ant vzj jxyfgfs htwwnlnjsit zs uqnjlt
ij zs qngwt vzj xj nsynyzqfgf Qze ijq fqrf; d,js anésitqj, inot:

-Jxytx yfqjx qngwtx, fzsvzj mfd rzhmtx ijxyj lésjwt, xts qtx vzj xj ijgjs
nruwnrnw, utwvzj xts rzhmtx qtx ujhfitwjx vzj xj zxfs, d xts rjsjxyjw
nsknsnyfx qzhjx ufwf yfsytx ijxfqzrgwfitx.

Ufxó fijqfsyj d ant vzj fxnrjxrt jxyfgfs htwwnlnjsit tywt qngwt; d,
uwjlzsyfsit xz yíyzqt, qj wjxutsinjwts vzj xj qqfrfgf qf Xjlzsif ufwyj ijq
Nsljsntxt Mnifqlt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, htruzjxyf utw zs yfq ajhnst ij
Ytwijxnqqfx.

-Df dt yjslt stynhnf ijxyj qngwt -inot its Vznotyj-, d js ajwifi d js rn
htshnjshnf vzj ujsxé vzj df jxyfgf vzjrfit d mjhmt utqatx, utw
nrujwynsjsyj; ujwt xz Xfs Rfwyís xj qj qqjlfwá, htrt f hfif uzjwht, vzj qfx
mnxytwnfx knslnifx yfsyt ynjsjs ij gzjsfx d ij ijqjnyfgqjx hzfsyt xj qqjlfs
f qf ajwifi t qf xjrjofsef ijqqf, d qfx ajwifijwfx yfsyt xts rjotwjx hzfsyt
xts ráx ajwifijwfx.

D, inhnjsit jxyt, hts rzjxywfx ij fqlús ijxujhmt, xj xfqnó ij qf jruwjsyf.
D fvzjq rjxrt iíf twijsó its Fsytsnt ij qqjafwqj f ajw qfx lfqjwfx vzj js
qf uqfdf jxyfgfs, ij vzj Xfshmt xj wjlthnoó rzhmt, f hfzxf vzj js xz anif
qfx mfgíf anxyt. Fanxó its Fsytsnt fq hzfywfqgt ij qfx lfqjwfx htrt fvzjqqf
yfwij mfgíf ij qqjafw f ajwqfx f xz mzéxuji jq kfrtxt its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, ij vznjs df jq hzfywfqgt d ytitx qtx ajhnstx ij qf hnzifi yjsífs
stynhnf; d qt vzj qj xzhjinó js jqqfx xj inwá js jq xnlznjsyj hfuíyzqt.





Hfuíyzqt QCNNN. Ij qt rfq vzj qj fanst f Xfshmt Ufsef hts qf anxnyf ij qfx
lfqjwfx, d qf szjaf fajsyzwf ij qf mjwrtxf rtwnxhf


Lwfsijx jwfs qtx inxhzwxtx vzj its Vznotyj mfhíf xtgwj qf wjxuzjxyf ij qf
jshfsyfif hfgjef, xns vzj snslzst ijqqtx injxj js jq jrgzxyj, d ytitx
ufwfgfs hts qf uwtrjxf, vzj éq yzat utw hnjwyt, ijq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf.
Fqqí ngf d ajsíf, d xj fqjlwfgf jsywj xí rnxrt, hwjdjsit vzj mfgíf ij ajw
uwjxyt xz hzruqnrnjsyt; d Xfshmt, fzsvzj fgtwwjhíf jq xjw ltgjwsfitw, htrt
vzjif inhmt, ytifaíf ijxjfgf atqajw f rfsifw d f xjw tgjijhnit; vzj jxyf
rfqf ajsyzwf ywfj htsxnlt jq rfsit, fzsvzj xjf ij gzwqfx.

Js wjxtqzhnós, fvzjqqf yfwij its Fsytsnt Rtwjst, xz mzéxuji, d xzx itx
frnltx, hts its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, kzjwts f qfx lfqjwfx. Jq hzfywfqgt, vzj
jxyfgf fanxfit ij xz gzjsf ajsnif, utw ajw f qtx itx yfs kfrtxtx Vznotyj d
Xfshmt, fujsfx qqjlfwts f qf rfwnsf, hzfsit ytifx qfx lfqjwfx fgfynjwts
ynjsif, d xtsfwts qfx hmnwnrífx; fwwtofwts qzjlt jq jxvznkj fq flzf,
hzgnjwyt ij wnhtx yfujyjx d ij fqrtmfifx ij yjwhntujqt hfwrjxí, d, js
utsnjsit vzj uzxt qtx unjx js éq its Vznotyj, inxufwó qf hfunyfsf jq hfñós
ij hwzoíf, d qfx tywfx lfqjwfx mnhnjwts qt rjxrt, d, fq xzgnw its Vznotyj
utw qf jxhfqf ijwjhmf, ytif qf hmzxrf qj xfqzió htrt jx zxfsef hzfsit zsf
ujwxtsf uwnshnufq jsywf js qf lfqjwf, inhnjsit: ''¡Mz, mz, mz!'' ywjx
ajhjx. Intqj qf rfst jq ljsjwfq, vzj hts jxyj strgwj qj qqfrfwjrtx, vzj jwf
zs uwnshnufq hfgfqqjwt afqjshnfst; fgwfeó f its Vznotyj, inhnésitqj:

-Jxyj iíf xjñfqfwé dt hts unjiwf gqfshf, utw xjw zst ij qtx rjotwjx vzj
unjsxt qqjafw js rn anif, mfgnjsit anxyt fq xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf:
ynjrut d xjñfq vzj stx rzjxywf vzj js éq xj jshnjwwf d hnkwf ytit jq afqtw
ijq fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf.

Hts tywfx st rjstx htwyjxjx wfetsjx qj wjxutsinó its Vznotyj, fqjlwj
xtgwjrfsjwf ij ajwxj ywfyfw yfs f qt xjñtw. Jsywfwts ytitx js qf utuf, vzj
jxyfgf rzd gnjs fijwjefif, d xjsyáwtsxj utw qtx gfsinsjx, ufxóxj jq hórnywj
js hwzoíf, d int xjñfq hts jq unyt vzj qf hmzxrf mnhnjxj kzjwf wtuf, vzj xj
mnet js zs nsxyfsyj. Xfshmt, vzj ant yfsyf ljsyj js hzjwtx, vzjió ufxrfit,
d ráx hzfsit ant mfhjw ynjsif hts yfsyf uwnjxf, vzj f éq qj ufwjhnó vzj
ytitx qtx infgqtx fsifgfs fqqí ywfgfofsit; ujwt jxyt ytit kzjwts ytwyfx d
ufs unsyfit ufwf qt vzj fmtwf inwé. Jxyfgf Xfshmt xjsyfit xtgwj jq
jxyfsyjwtq, ozsyt fq jxufqijw ij qf rfst ijwjhmf, jq hzfq df fanxfit ij qt
vzj mfgíf ij mfhjw, fxnó ij Xfshmt, d, qjafsyásitqj js qtx gwfetx, ytif qf
hmzxrf uzjxyf js unj d fqjwyf, htrjsefsit ij qf ijwjhmf gfsif, qj kzj ifsit
d atqyjfsit xtgwj qtx gwfetx ij qf hmzxrf ij gfsht js gfsht, hts yfsyf
uwnjxf, vzj jq utgwj Xfshmt ujwinó qf anxyf ij qtx totx, d xns izif ujsxó
vzj qtx rnxrtx ijrtsntx qj qqjafgfs, d st ufwfwts hts éq mfxyf atqajwqj utw
qf xnsnjxywf gfsif d utsjwqj js qf utuf. Vzjió jq utgwj rtqnit, d ofijfsit,
d ywfxzifsit, xns utijw nrflnsfw vzé kzj qt vzj xzhjinit qj mfgíf.

Its Vznotyj, vzj ant jq azjqt xns fqfx ij Xfshmt, uwjlzsyó fq ljsjwfq xn
jwfs hjwjrtsnfx fvzéqqfx vzj xj zxfgfs hts qtx uwnrjwtx vzj jsywfgfs js qfx
lfqjwfx; utwvzj xn fhfxt qt kzjxj, éq, vzj st yjsíf nsyjshnós ij uwtkjxfw
js jqqfx, st vzjwíf mfhjw xjrjofsyjx jojwhnhntx, d vzj atyfgf f Intx vzj,
xn fqlzst qqjlfgf f fxnwqj ufwf atqyjfwqj, vzj qj mfgíf ij xfhfw jq fqrf f
uzsynqqfetx; d, inhnjsit jxyt, xj qjafsyó js unj d jruzñó qf jxufif.

F jxyj nsxyfsyj fgfynjwts ynjsif, d hts lwfsiíxnrt wznit ijofwts hfjw qf
jsyjsf ij fqyt fgfot. Ujsxó Xfshmt vzj jq hnjqt xj ijxjshfofgf ij xzx
vznhntx d ajsíf f ifw xtgwj xz hfgjef; d, fltgnásitqf, qqjst ij rnjit, qf
uzxt jsywj qfx unjwsfx. St qfx yzat ytifx htsxnlt its Vznotyj; vzj yfrgnés
xj jxywjrjhnó d jshtlnó ij mtrgwtx d ujwinó qf htqtw ijq wtxywt. Qf hmzxrf
neó qf jsyjsf hts qf rnxrf uwnjxf d wznit vzj qf mfgífs frfnsfit, d ytit
jxyt, hfqqfsit, htrt xn st yzanjwfs ate sn fqnjsyt. Mnet xjñfq jq hórnywj
vzj efwufxjs jq kjwwt, d, xfqyfsit js rnyfi ij qf hwzoíf hts jq htwgfhmt t
wjgjsvzj, htrjseó f rtxvzjfw qfx jxufqifx ij qf hmzxrf, d f qfwlfwxj utht f
utht f qf rfw. Hzfsit Xfshmt ant f zsf rtajwxj yfsytx unjx htqtwfitx, vzj
yfqjx ujsxó éq vzj jwfs qtx wjrtx, inot jsywj xí:

-Éxyfx xí xts ajwifijwfrjsyj htxfx jshfsyfifx, d st qfx vzj rn frt inhj.
¿Vzé mfs mjhmt jxytx ijxinhmfitx, vzj fsxí qtx fetyfs, d hórt jxyj mtrgwj
xtqt, vzj fsif utw fvzí xnqgfsit, ynjsj fywjanrnjsyt ufwf fetyfw f yfsyf
ljsyj? Fmtwf dt inlt vzj éxyj jx nsknjwst, t, utw qt rjstx, jq uzwlfytwnt.

Its Vznotyj, vzj ant qf fyjshnós hts vzj Xfshmt rnwfgf qt vzj ufxfgf, qj
inot:

-¡Fm Xfshmt frnlt, d hts vzé gwjajifi d hzás f uthf htxyf tx utiífijx atx,
xn vznxnéxjijx, ijxszifw ij rjint hzjwut fwwngf, d utsjwtx jsywj jxytx
xjñtwjx, d fhfgfw hts jq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf! Uzjx hts qf rnxjwnf d ujsf
ij yfsytx, st xjsynwífijx atx rzhmt qf azjxywf; d ráx, vzj utiwíf xjw vzj
jq xfgnt Rjwqís ytrfxj js hzjsyf hfif fetyj iéxytx, utw xjw ifitx ij gzjsf
rfst, utw inje ij qtx vzj atx knsfqrjsyj tx mfgénx ij ifw.

Uwjlzsyfw vzjwíf jq ljsjwfq vzé fetyjx jwfs fvzéqqtx, t vzé ijxjshfsyt ij
Izqhnsjf, hzfsit inot jq rfwnsjwt:

-Xjñfq mfhj Rtsozí ij vzj mfd gfojq ij wjrtx js qf htxyf utw qf gfsif ijq
utsnjsyj.

Jxyt tíit, xfqyó jq ljsjwfq js qf hwzoíf, d inot:

-¡Jf mnotx, st xj stx afdf! Fqlús gjwlfsyís ij htxfwntx ij Fwljq ijgj ij
xjw éxyj vzj qf fyfqfdf stx xjñfqf.

Qqjláwtsxj qzjlt qfx tywfx ywjx lfqjwfx f qf hfunyfsf, f xfgjw qt vzj xj
qjx twijsfgf. Rfsió jq ljsjwfq vzj qfx itx xfqnjxjs f qf rfw, d éq hts qf
tywf nwíf ynjwwf f ynjwwf, utwvzj fsxí jq gfojq st xj qjx jxhfufwíf. Fuwjyó
qf hmzxrf qtx wjrtx, nrujqnjsit qfx lfqjwfx hts yfsyf kzwnf, vzj ufwjhíf
vzj atqfgfs. Qfx vzj xfqnjwts f qf rfw, f tgwf ij itx rnqqfx ijxhzgwnjwts
zs gfojq, vzj hts qf anxyf qj rfwhfwts utw ij mfxyf hfytwhj t vznshj
gfshtx, d fxí jwf qf ajwifi; jq hzfq gfojq, hzfsit ijxhzgwnó qfx lfqjwfx,
xj uzxt js hfef, hts nsyjshnós d jxujwfsef ij jxhfufwxj utw xz qnljwjef;
ujwt faístqj rfq, utwvzj qf lfqjwf hfunyfsf jwf ij qtx ráx qnljwtx gfojqjx
vzj js qf rfw sfajlfgfs, d fxí qj kzj jsywfsit, vzj hqfwfrjsyj qtx ijq
gjwlfsyís htsthnjwts vzj st utiífs jxhfufwxj; d fxí, jq fwwáje vznxnjwf vzj
ijofwfs qtx wjrtx d xj jsywjlfwfs, utw st nwwnyfw f jstot fq hfunyás vzj
szjxywfx lfqjwfx wjlíf. Ujwt qf xzjwyj, vzj ij tywf rfsjwf qt lznfgf,
twijsó vzj, df vzj qf hfunyfsf qqjlfgf yfs hjwhf vzj utiífs qtx ijq gfojq
tíw qfx athjx vzj ijxij jqqf qjx ijhífs vzj xj wnsinjxjs, itx ytwfvzíx, vzj
jx htrt ijhnw itx yzwhtx gtwwfhmtx, vzj js jq gjwlfsyís ajsífs hts jxytx
ithj, inxufwfwts itx jxhtujyfx, hts vzj injwts rzjwyj f itx xtqifitx vzj
xtgwj szjxywfx fwwzrgfifx ajsífs. Anjsit qt hzfq, ozwó jq ljsjwfq ij st
ijofw hts anif f ytitx hzfsytx js jq gfojq ytrfxj, d, qqjlfsit f jrgjxynw
hts ytif kzwnf, xj qj jxhfuó utw ijgfot ij qf ufqfrjsyf. Ufxó qf lfqjwf
fijqfsyj zs gzjs ywjhmt; qtx ijq gfojq xj anjwts ujwinitx, mnhnjwts ajqf js
yfsyt vzj qf lfqjwf atqaíf, d ij szjat, f ajqf d f wjrt, xj uzxnjwts js
hfef; ujwt st qjx fuwtajhmó xz inqnljshnf yfsyt htrt qjx ifñó xz
fywjanrnjsyt, utwvzj, fqhfseásitqjx qf hfunyfsf f utht ráx ij rjinf rnqqf,
qjx jhmó qf ufqfrjsyf jshnrf d qtx htlnó anatx f ytitx.

Qqjlfwts js jxyt qfx tywfx itx lfqjwfx, d ytifx hzfywt hts qf uwjxf
atqanjwts f qf uqfdf, itsij nsknsnyf ljsyj qtx jxyfgf jxujwfsit, ijxjtxtx
ij ajw qt vzj ywfífs. Int ktsit jq ljsjwfq hjwhf ij ynjwwf, d htsthnó vzj
jxyfgf js qf rfwnsf jq anwwjd ij qf hnzifi. Rfsió jhmfw jq jxvznkj ufwf
ywfjwqj, d rfsió frfnsfw qf jsyjsf ufwf fmtwhfw qzjlt qzjlt fq fwwáje d f
qtx ijráx yzwhtx vzj js jq gfojq mfgíf htlnit, vzj xjwífs mfxyf ywjnsyf d
xjnx ujwxtsfx, ytitx lfqqfwitx, d qtx ráx, jxhtujyjwtx yzwhtx. Uwjlzsyó jq
ljsjwfq vznés jwf jq fwwáje ijq gjwlfsyís d kzjqj wjxutsinit utw zst ij qtx
hfzynatx, js qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf, vzj ijxuzéx ufwjhnó xjw wjsjlfit jxufñtq:

-Jxyj rfshjgt, xjñtw, vzj fvzí ajjx jx szjxywt fwwáje.

D rtxywóqj zst ij qtx ráx gjqqtx d lfqqfwitx rtetx vzj uzinjwf unsyfw qf
mzrfsf nrflnsfhnós. Qf jifi, fq ufwjhjw, st qqjlfgf f ajnsyj fñtx.
Uwjlzsyóqj jq ljsjwfq:

-Inrj, rfq fhtsxjofit ujwwt, ¿vznés yj rtanó f rfyfwrj rnx xtqifitx, uzjx
ajífx xjw nrutxngqj jq jxhfufwyj? ¿Jxj wjxujyt xj lzfwif f qfx hfunyfsfx?
¿St xfgjx yú vzj st jx afqjsyíf qf yjrjwnifi? Qfx jxujwfsefx izitxfx mfs ij
mfhjw f qtx mtrgwjx fywjanitx, ujwt st yjrjwfwntx.

Wjxutsijw vzjwíf jq fwwáje; ujwt st uzit jq ljsjwfq, utw jsytshjx, tíw qf
wjxuzjxyf, utw fhzinw f wjhjgnw fq anwwjd, vzj df jsywfgf js qf lfqjwf, hts
jq hzfq jsywfwts fqlzstx ij xzx hwnfitx d fqlzsfx ujwxtsfx ijq uzjgqt.

-¡Gzjsf mf jxyfit qf hfef, xjñtw ljsjwfq! -inot jq anwwjd.

-D yfs gzjsf -wjxutsinó jq ljsjwfq- hzfq qf ajwá Azjxywf Jchjqjshnf fltwf
htqlfif ij jxyf jsyjsf.

-¿Hórt fsxí? -wjuqnhó jq anwwjd.

-Utwvzj rj mfs rzjwyt -wjxutsinó jq ljsjwfq-, htsywf ytif qjd d htsywf ytif
wfeós d zxfsef ij lzjwwf, itx xtqifitx ij qtx rjotwjx vzj js jxyfx lfqjwfx
ajsífs, d dt mj ozwfit ij fmtwhfw f hzfsytx mj hfzynafit, uwnshnufqrjsyj f
jxyj rtet, vzj jx jq fwwáje ijq gjwlfsyís.

D jsxjñóqj fq vzj df yjsíf fyfifx qfx rfstx d jhmfit jq htwijq f qf
lfwlfsyf, jxujwfsit qf rzjwyj.

Rnwóqj jq anwwjd, d, anésitqj yfs mjwrtxt, d yfs lfqqfwit, d yfs mzrnqij,
iásitqj js fvzjq nsxyfsyj zsf hfwyf ij wjhtrjsifhnós xz mjwrtxzwf, qj anst
ijxjt ij jxhzxfw xz rzjwyj; d fxí, qj uwjlzsyó:

-Inrj, fwwáje, ¿jwjx yzwht ij sfhnós, t rtwt, t wjsjlfit?

F qt hzfq jq rtet wjxutsinó, js qjslzf fxnrjxrt hfxyjqqfsf:

-Sn xtd yzwht ij sfhnós, sn rtwt, sn wjsjlfit.

-Uzjx, ¿vzé jwjx? -wjuqnhó jq anwwjd.

-Rzojw hwnxynfsf -wjxutsinó jq rfshjgt.

-¿Rzojw d hwnxynfsf, d js yfq ywfoj d js yfqjx ufxtx? Ráx jx htxf ufwf
firnwfwqf vzj ufwf hwjjwqf.

-Xzxujsiji -inot jq rtet-, ¡tm xjñtwjx!, qf jojhzhnós ij rn rzjwyj, vzj st
xj ujwijwá rzhmt js vzj xj inqfyj azjxywf ajslfsef js yfsyt vzj dt tx
hzjsyj rn anif.

¿Vznés kzjwf jq ij htwfeós yfs izwt vzj hts jxyfx wfetsjx st xj fgqfsifwf,
t, f qt rjstx, mfxyf tíw qfx vzj jq ywnxyj d qfxynrfit rfshjgt ijhnw
vzjwíf? Jq ljsjwfq qj inot vzj inojxj qt vzj vznxnjxj, ujwt vzj st jxujwfxj
fqhfsefw ujwiós ij xz htsthnif hzquf. Hts jxyf qnhjshnf, jq rtet htrjseó f
ijhnw ijxyf rfsjwf:

-«Ij fvzjqqf sfhnós ráx ijxinhmfif vzj uwzijsyj, xtgwj vznjs mf qqtanit
jxytx iífx zs rfw ij ijxlwfhnfx, sfhí dt, ij rtwnxhtx ufiwjx jsljsiwfif. Js
qf htwwnjsyj ij xz ijxajsyzwf kzn dt utw itx yítx rítx qqjafif f Gjwgjwíf,
xns vzj rj fuwtajhmfxj ijhnw vzj jwf hwnxynfsf, htrt, js jkjhyt, qt xtd, d
st ij qfx knslnifx sn fufwjsyjx, xnst ij qfx ajwifijwfx d hfyóqnhfx. St rj
afqnó, hts qtx vzj yjsífs f hfwlt szjxywt rnxjwfgqj ijxynjwwt, ijhnw jxyf
ajwifi, sn rnx yítx vznxnjwts hwjjwqf; fsyjx qf yzanjwts utw rjsynwf d utw
nsajshnós ufwf vzjifwrj js qf ynjwwf itsij mfgíf sfhnit, d fxí, utw kzjwef
ráx vzj utw lwfit, rj ywzojwts htsxnlt. Yzaj zsf rfiwj hwnxynfsf d zs ufiwj
inxhwjyt d hwnxynfst, sn ráx sn rjstx; rfré qf kj hfyóqnhf js qf qjhmj;
hwnérj hts gzjsfx htxyzrgwjx; sn js qf qjslzf sn js jqqfx ofráx, f rn
ufwjhjw, in xjñfqjx ij xjw rtwnxhf. Fq ufw d fq ufxt ijxyfx anwyzijx, vzj
dt hwjt vzj qt xts, hwjhnó rn mjwrtxzwf, xn jx vzj yjslt fqlzsf; d, fzsvzj
rn wjhfyt d rn jshjwwfrnjsyt kzj rzhmt, st ijgnó ij xjw yfsyt vzj st
yzanjxj qzlfw ij ajwrj zs rfshjgt hfgfqqjwt, qqfrfit its Lfxufw Lwjltwnt,
mnot rfdtwfelt ij zs hfgfqqjwt vzj ozsyt f szjxywt qzlfw tywt xzdt ynjsj.
Hórt rj ant, hórt stx mfgqfrtx, hórt xj ant ujwinit utw rí d hórt dt st rzd
lfsfif utw éq, xjwíf qfwlt ij htsyfw, d ráx js ynjrut vzj jxytd yjrnjsit
vzj, jsywj qf qjslzf d qf lfwlfsyf, xj mf ij fywfajxfw jq wnlzwtxt htwijq
vzj rj frjsfef; d fxí, xóqt inwé hórt js szjxywt ijxynjwwt vznxt
fhtrufñfwrj its Lwjltwnt. Rjehqóxj hts qtx rtwnxhtx vzj ij tywtx qzlfwjx
xfqnjwts, utwvzj xfgíf rzd gnjs qf qjslzf, d js jq anfoj xj mnet frnlt ij
itx yítx rítx vzj htsxnlt rj ywfífs; utwvzj rn ufiwj, uwzijsyj d uwjajsnit,
fxí htrt tdó jq uwnrjw gfsit ij szjxywt ijxynjwwt, xj xfqnó ijq qzlfw d xj
kzj f gzxhfw fqlzst js qtx wjnstx jxywfñtx vzj stx fhtlnjxj. Ijoó
jshjwwfifx d jsyjwwfifx, js zsf ufwyj ij vznjs dt xtqf yjslt stynhnf,
rzhmfx ujwqfx d unjiwfx ij lwfs afqtw, hts fqlzstx insjwtx js hwzefitx d
itgqtsjx ij twt. Rfsiórj vzj st ythfxj fq yjxtwt vzj ijofgf js snslzsf
rfsjwf, xn fhfxt fsyjx vzj éq atqanjxj stx ijxyjwwfgfs. Míhjqt fxí, d hts
rnx yítx, htrt yjslt inhmt, d tywtx ufwnjsyjx d fqqjlfitx ufxfrtx f
Gjwgjwíf; d jq qzlfw itsij mnhnrtx fxnjsyt kzj js Fwljq, htrt xn qj
mnhnéwfrtx js jq rnxrt nsknjwst. Yzat stynhnf jq wjd ij rn mjwrtxzwf, d qf
kfrf xj qf int ij rnx wnvzjefx, vzj, js ufwyj, kzj ajsyzwf ríf. Qqfrórj
fsyj xí, uwjlzsyórj ij vzé ufwyj ij Jxufñf jwf d vzé insjwtx d vzé otdfx
ywfíf. Iíojqj jq qzlfw, d vzj qfx otdfx d insjwtx vzjifgfs js éq
jsyjwwfitx, ujwt vzj hts kfhnqnifi xj utiwífs htgwfw xn dt rnxrf atqanjxj
utw jqqtx. Ytit jxyt qj inoj, yjrjwtxf ij vzj st qj hjlfxj rn mjwrtxzwf,
xnst xz htinhnf. Jxyfsit htsrnlt js jxyfx uqáynhfx, qj qqjlfwts f ijhnw
hórt ajsíf htsrnlt zst ij qtx ráx lfqqfwitx d mjwrtxtx rfshjgtx vzj xj
utiíf nrflnsfw. Qzjlt jsyjsií vzj qt ijhífs utw its Lfxufw Lwjltwnt, hzdf
gjqqjef xj ijof fywáx qfx rfdtwjx vzj jshfwjhjw xj uzjijs. Yzwgérj,
htsxnijwfsit jq ujqnlwt vzj its Lwjltwnt htwwíf, utwvzj jsywj fvzjqqtx
gáwgfwtx yzwhtx js ráx xj ynjsj d jxynrf zs rthmfhmt t rfshjgt mjwrtxt vzj
zsf rzojw, utw gjqqíxnrf vzj xjf. Rfsió qzjlt jq wjd vzj xj qj ywzojxjs
fqqí ijqfsyj ufwf ajwqj, d uwjlzsyórj xn jwf ajwifi qt vzj ij fvzjq rtet qj
ijhífs. Jsytshjx dt, hfxn htrt uwjajsnif ijq hnjqt, qj inoj vzj xí jwf;
ujwt vzj qj mfhíf xfgjw vzj st jwf afwós, xnst rzojw htrt dt, d vzj qj
xzuqnhfgf rj qf ijofxj nw f ajxynw js xz sfyzwfq ywfoj, ufwf vzj ij ytit js
ytit rtxywfxj xz gjqqjef d hts rjstx jrufhmt ufwjhnjxj fsyj xz uwjxjshnf.
Iíotrj vzj kzjxj js gzjsf mtwf, d vzj tywt iíf mfgqfwífrtx js jq rtit vzj
xj utiíf yjsjw ufwf vzj dt atqanjxj f Jxufñf f xfhfw jq jxhtsinit yjxtwt.
Mfgqé hts its Lfxufw, htsyéqj jq ujqnlwt vzj htwwíf jq rtxywfw xjw mtrgwj;
ajxyíqj ij rtwf, d fvzjqqf rjxrf yfwij qj ywzoj f qf uwjxjshnf ijq wjd, jq
hzfq, js anésitqj, vzjió firnwfit d mnet inxnlsnt ij lzfwifwqf ufwf mfhjw
uwjxjsyj ijqqf fq Lwfs Xjñtw; d, utw mznw ijq ujqnlwt vzj js jq xjwwfqqt ij
xzx rzojwjx utiíf yjsjw d yjrjw ij xí rnxrt, qf rfsió utsjw js hfxf ij zsfx
uwnshnufqjx rtwfx vzj qf lzfwifxjs d qf xnwanjxjs, fitsij qj qqjafwts
qzjlt. Qt vzj qtx itx xjsynrtx (vzj st uzjit sjlfw vzj st qj vznjwt) xj
ijoj f qf htsxnijwfhnós ij qtx vzj xj fufwyfs xn gnjs xj vznjwjs. Int qzjlt
ywfef jq wjd ij vzj dt atqanjxj f Jxufñf js jxyj gjwlfsyís d vzj rj
fhtrufñfxjs itx yzwhtx ij sfhnós, vzj kzjwts qtx vzj rfyfwts azjxywtx
xtqifitx. Anst yfrgnés htsrnlt jxyj wjsjlfit jxufñtq -xjñfqfsit fq vzj
mfgíf mfgqfit uwnrjwt-, ijq hzfq xé dt gnjs vzj jx hwnxynfst jshzgnjwyt d
vzj anjsj hts ráx ijxjt ij vzjifwxj js Jxufñf vzj ij atqajw f Gjwgjwíf; qf
ijráx hmzxrf ijq gjwlfsyís xts rtwtx d yzwhtx, vzj st xnwajs ij ráx vzj ij
gtlfw fq wjrt. Qtx itx yzwhtx, htinhntxtx j nsxtqjsyjx, xns lzfwifw jq
twijs vzj ywfífrtx ij vzj f rí d f jxyj wjsjlfit js qf uwnrjw ufwyj ij
Jxufñf, js mágnyt ij hwnxynfstx, ij vzj ajsnrtx uwtajíitx, stx jhmfxjs js
ynjwwf, uwnrjwt vznxnjwts gfwwjw jxyf htxyf d mfhjw fqlzsf uwjxf, xn
uzinjxjs, yjrnjsit vzj xn uwnrjwt stx jhmfgfs js ynjwwf, utw fqlús fhnijsyj
vzj f qtx itx stx xzhjinjxj, utiwífrtx ijxhzgwnw vzj vzjifgf jq gjwlfsyís
js qf rfw, d xn fhfxt mzgnjxj lfqjwfx utw jxyf htxyf, qtx ytrfxjs. Fsthmj
ijxhzgwnrtx jxyf uqfdf, d, xns yjsjw stynhnf ijxyfx hzfywt lfqjwfx,
kznrtx ijxhzgnjwytx, d stx mf xzhjinit qt vzj mfgénx anxyt. Js wjxtqzhnós:
its Lwjltwnt vzjif js mágnyt ij rzojw jsywj rzojwjx, hts rfsnknjxyt ujqnlwt
ij ujwijwxj, d dt rj ajt fyfifx qfx rfstx, jxujwfsit, t, utw rjotw ijhnw,
yjrnjsit ujwijw qf anif, vzj df rj hfsxf.» Éxyj jx, xjñtwjx, jq kns ij rn
qfrjsyfgqj mnxytwnf, yfs ajwifijwf htrt ijxinhmfif; qt vzj tx wzjlt jx vzj
rj ijoénx rtwnw htrt hwnxynfsf, uzjx, htrt df mj inhmt, js snslzsf htxf mj
xnit hzqufsyj ij qf hzquf js vzj qtx ij rn sfhnós mfs hfíit.

D qzjlt hfqqó, uwjñfitx qtx totx ij ynjwsfx qálwnrfx, f vznjs fhtrufñfwts
rzhmfx ij qtx vzj uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs. Jq anwwjd, ynjwst d htrufxnat, xns
mfgqfwqj ufqfgwf, xj qqjló f jqqf d qj vznyó hts xzx rfstx jq htwijq vzj
qfx mjwrtxfx ij qf rtwf qnlfgf.

Js yfsyt, uzjx, vzj qf rtwnxhf hwnxynfsf xz ujwjlwnsf mnxytwnf ywfyfgf,
yzat hqfafitx qtx totx js jqqf zs fshnfst ujwjlwnst vzj jsywó js qf lfqjwf
hzfsit jsywó jq anwwjd; d, fujsfx int kns f xz uqáynhf qf rtwnxhf, hzfsit
éq xj fwwtoó f xzx unjx, d, fgwfefit ijqqtx, hts nsyjwwzrunifx ufqfgwfx ij
rnq xtqqtetx d xzxunwtx, qj inot:

-¡Tm Fsf Kéqnc, ijxinhmfif mnof ríf! Dt xtd yz ufiwj Wnhtyj, vzj atqaíf f
gzxhfwyj utw st utijw ananw xns yn, vzj jwjx rn fqrf.

F hzdfx ufqfgwfx fgwnó qtx totx Xfshmt, d fqeó qf hfgjef (vzj nshqnsfif
yjsíf, ujsxfsit js qf ijxlwfhnf ij xz ufxjt), d, rnwfsit fq ujwjlwnst,
htsthnó xjw jq rnxrt Wnhtyj vzj ytuó jq iíf vzj xfqnó ij xz ltgnjwst, d
htsknwróxj vzj fvzéqqf jwf xz mnof, qf hzfq, df ijxfyfif, fgwfeó f xz
ufiwj, rjehqfsit xzx qálwnrfx hts qfx xzdfx; jq hzfq inot fq ljsjwfq d fq
anwwjd:

-Éxyf, xjñtwjx, jx rn mnof, ráx ijxinhmfif js xzx xzhjxtx vzj js xz strgwj.
Fsf Kéqnc xj qqfrf, hts jq xtgwjstrgwj ij Wnhtyj, kfrtxf yfsyt utw xz
mjwrtxzwf htrt utw rn wnvzjef. Dt xfqí ij rn ufywnf f gzxhfw js wjnstx
jxywfñtx vznjs stx fqgjwlfxj d wjhtlnjxj, d, mfgnésitqj mfqqfit js
Fqjrfsnf, atqaí js jxyj mágnyt ij ujwjlwnst, js htrufñíf ij tywtx fqjrfsjx,
f gzxhfw rn mnof d f ijxjsyjwwfw rzhmfx wnvzjefx vzj ijoé jxhtsinifx. St
mfqqé f rn mnof; mfqqé jq yjxtwt, vzj htsrnlt ywfnlt, d fltwf, utw jq
jxywfñt wtijt vzj mfgénx anxyt, mj mfqqfit jq yjxtwt vzj ráx rj jswnvzjhj,
vzj jx f rn vzjwnif mnof. Xn szjxywf uthf hzquf d xzx qálwnrfx d qfx rífx,
utw qf nsyjlwnifi ij azjxywf ozxynhnf, uzjijs fgwnw uzjwyfx f qf
rnxjwnhtwinf, zxfiqf hts stxtywtx, vzj ofráx yzanrtx ujsxfrnjsyt ij
tkjsijwtx, sn htsajsnrtx js snslús rtit hts qf nsyjshnós ij qtx szjxywtx,
vzj ozxyfrjsyj mfs xnit ijxyjwwfitx.

Jsytshjx inot Xfshmt:

-Gnjs htsteht f Wnhtyj, d xé vzj jx ajwifi qt vzj inhj js hzfsyt f xjw Fsf
Kéqnc xz mnof; vzj js jxtywfx efwfsifofx ij nw d ajsnw, yjsjw gzjsf t rfqf
nsyjshnós, st rj jsywjrjyt.

Firnwfitx ijq jxywfñt hfxt ytitx qtx uwjxjsyjx, jq ljsjwfq inot:

-Zsf utw zsf azjxywfx qálwnrfx st rj ijofwás hzruqnw rn ozwfrjsyt: anani,
mjwrtxf Fsf Kéqnc, qtx fñtx ij anif vzj tx ynjsj ijyjwrnsfitx jq hnjqt, d
qqjajs qf ujsf ij xz hzquf qtx nsxtqjsyjx d fywjanitx vzj qf htrjynjwts.

D rfsió qzjlt fmtwhfw ij qf jsyjsf f qtx itx yzwhtx vzj f xzx itx xtqifitx
mfgífs rzjwyt; ujwt jq anwwjd qj uninó jshfwjhnifrjsyj st qtx fmtwhfxj,
uzjx ráx qthzwf vzj afqjsyíf mfgíf xnit qf xzdf. Mnet jq ljsjwfq qt vzj jq
anwwjd qj ujiíf, utwvzj st xj jojhzyfs gnjs qfx ajslfsefx f xfslwj mjqfif.
Uwthzwfwts qzjlt ifw ywfef ij xfhfw f its Lfxufw Lwjltwnt ijq ujqnlwt js
vzj vzjifgf. Tkwjhnó Wnhtyj ufwf jqqt ráx ij itx rnq izhfitx vzj js ujwqfx
d js otdfx yjsíf. Inéwtsxj rzhmtx rjintx, ujwt snslzst kzj yfq htrt jq vzj
int jq wjsjlfit jxufñtq vzj xj mf inhmt, jq hzfq xj tkwjhnó ij atqajw f
Fwljq js fqlús gfwht ujvzjñt, ij mfxyf xjnx gfshtx, fwrfit ij wjrjwtx
hwnxynfstx, utwvzj éq xfgíf iósij, hórt d hzásit utiíf d ijgíf ijxjrgfwhfw,
d fxnrnxrt st nlstwfgf qf hfxf itsij its Lfxufw vzjifgf. Izifwts jq ljsjwfq
d jq anwwjd jq knfwxj ijq wjsjlfit, sn htsknfw ij qtx hwnxynfstx vzj mfgífs
ij gtlfw jq wjrt; knóqj Fsf Kéqnc, d Wnhtyj, xz ufiwj, inot vzj xfqíf f ifw
jq wjxhfyj ij qtx hwnxynfstx, xn fhfxt xj ujwinjxjs.

Knwrfitx, uzjx, js jxyj ufwjhjw, xj ijxjrgfwhó jq anwwjd, d its Fsytsnt
Rtwjst xj qqjaó htsxnlt f qf rtwnxhf d f xz ufiwj, jshfwlásitqj jq anwwjd
vzj qtx wjlfqfxj d fhfwnhnfxj hzfsyt qj kzjxj utxngqj; vzj ij xz ufwyj qj
tkwjhíf qt vzj js xz hfxf mzgnjxj ufwf xz wjlfqt. Yfsyf kzj qf gjsjatqjshnf
d hfwnifi vzj qf mjwrtxzwf ij Fsf Kéqnc nskzsinó js xz ujhmt.





Hfuíyzqt QCNA. Vzj ywfyf ij qf fajsyzwf vzj ráx ujxfizrgwj int f its
Vznotyj ij hzfsyfx mfxyf jsytshjx qj mfgífs xzhjinit


Qf rzojw ij its Fsytsnt Rtwjst hzjsyf qf mnxytwnf vzj wjhngnó lwfsiíxnrt
htsyjsyt ij ajw f Fsf Kéqnc js xz hfxf. Wjhngnóqf hts rzhmt flwfit, fxí
jsfrtwfif ij xz gjqqjef htrt ij xz inxhwjhnós, utwvzj js qt zst d js qt
tywt jwf jxywjrfif qf rtwnxhf, d ytif qf ljsyj ij qf hnzifi, htrt f hfrufsf
yfñnif, ajsífs f ajwqf.

Inot its Vznotyj f its Fsytsnt vzj jq ufwjhjw vzj mfgífs ytrfit js qf
qngjwyfi ij its Lwjltwnt st jwf gzjst, utwvzj yjsíf ráx ij ujqnlwtxt vzj ij
htsajsnjsyj, d vzj xjwíf rjotw vzj qj uzxnjxjs f éq js Gjwgjwíf hts xzx
fwrfx d hfgfqqt; vzj éq qj xfhfwíf f ujxfw ij ytif qf rtwnxrf, htrt mfgíf
mjhmt its Lfnkjwtx f xz jxutxf Rjqnxjsiwf.

-Fianjwyf azjxf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt, tdjsit jxyt- vzj jq xjñtw its Lfnkjwtx
xfhó f xzx jxutxf ij ynjwwf knwrj d qf qqjaó f Kwfshnf utw ynjwwf knwrj;
ujwt fvzí, xn fhfxt xfhfrtx f its Lwjltwnt, st yjsjrtx utw iósij ywfjwqj f
Jxufñf, uzjx jxyá qf rfw js rjint.

-Ufwf ytit mfd wjrjint, xn st jx ufwf qf rzjwyj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-;
uzjx, qqjlfsit jq gfwht f qf rfwnsf, stx utiwjrtx jrgfwhfw js éq, fzsvzj
ytit jq rzsit qt nrunif.

-Rzd gnjs qt unsyf d kfhnqnyf azjxywf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt-, ujwt ijq inhmt
fq mjhmt mfd lwfs ywjhmt, d dt rj fyjslt fq wjsjlfit, vzj rj ufwjhj rzd
mtrgwj ij gnjs d ij rzd gzjsfx jsywfñfx.

Its Fsytsnt inot vzj xn jq wjsjlfit st xfqnjxj gnjs ijq hfxt, xj ytrfwíf jq
jxujinjsyj ij vzj jq lwfs its Vznotyj ufxfxj js Gjwgjwíf.

Ij fqqí f itx iífx ufwynó jq wjsjlfit js zs qnljwt gfwht ij xjnx wjrtx utw
gfsif, fwrfit ij afqjsyíxnrf hmzxrf; d ij fqqí f tywtx itx xj ufwynjwts qfx
lfqjwfx f Qjafsyj, mfgnjsit ujinit jq ljsjwfq fq anxtwwjd kzjxj xjwanit ij
fanxfwqj ij qt vzj xzhjinjxj js qf qngjwyfi ij its Lwjltwnt d js jq hfxt ij
Fsf Kéqnc; vzjió jq anxtwwjd ij mfhjwqt fxí htrt xj qt ujiíf.

D zsf rfñfsf, xfqnjsit its Vznotyj f ufxjfwxj utw qf uqfdf fwrfit ij ytifx
xzx fwrfx, utwvzj, htrt rzhmfx ajhjx ijhíf, jqqfx jwfs xzx fwwjtx, d xz
ijxhfsxt jq ujqjfw, d st xj mfqqfgf xns jqqfx zs uzsyt, ant ajsnw mfhíf éq
zs hfgfqqjwt, fwrfit fxnrnxrt ij uzsyf js gqfsht, vzj js jq jxhzit ywfíf
unsyfif zsf qzsf wjxuqfsijhnjsyj; jq hzfq, qqjlásitxj f ywjhmt vzj utiíf
xjw tíit, js fqyfx athjx, jshfrnsfsit xzx wfetsjx f its Vznotyj, inot:

-Nsxnlsj hfgfqqjwt d ofráx htrt xj ijgj fqfgfit its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
dt xtd jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, hzdfx nsfzinyfx mfefñfx vzneá yj qj
mfgwás ywfíit f qf rjrtwnf. Ajslt f htsyjsijw htsynlt d f uwtgfw qf kzjwef
ij yzx gwfetx, js wfeós ij mfhjwyj htsthjw d htskjxfw vzj rn ifrf, xjf
vznjs kzjwj, jx xns htrufwfhnós ráx mjwrtxf vzj yz Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt; qf
hzfq ajwifi xn yú qf htsknjxfx ij qqfst js qqfst, jxhzxfwáx yz rzjwyj d jq
ywfgfot vzj dt mj ij ytrfw js iáwyjqf; d xn yú ujqjfwjx d dt yj ajshnjwj,
st vznjwt tywf xfynxkfhnós xnst vzj, ijofsit qfx fwrfx d fgxyjsnésityj ij
gzxhfw fajsyzwfx, yj wjhtofx d wjynwjx f yz qzlfw utw ynjrut ij zs fñt,
itsij mfx ij ananw xns jhmfw rfst f qf jxufif, js ufe ywfsvznqf d js
uwtajhmtxt xtxnjlt, utwvzj fxí htsanjsj fq fzrjsyt ij yz mfhnjsif d f qf
xfqafhnós ij yz fqrf; d xn yú rj ajshnjwjx, vzjifwá f yz inxhwjhnós rn
hfgjef, d xjwás yzdtx qtx ijxutotx ij rnx fwrfx d hfgfqqt, d ufxfwá f qf
yzdf qf kfrf ij rnx mfefñfx. Rnwf qt vzj yj jxyá rjotw, d wjxuósijrj qzjlt,
utwvzj mtd ytit jq iíf ywfnlt ij yéwrnst ufwf ijxufhmfw jxyj sjlthnt.

Its Vznotyj vzjió xzxujsxt d fyósnyt, fxí ij qf fwwtlfshnf ijq Hfgfqqjwt ij
qf Gqfshf Qzsf htrt ij qf hfzxf utw vzj qj ijxfknfgf; d hts wjutxt d fijrás
xjajwt qj wjxutsinó:

-Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, hzdfx mfefñfx mfxyf fltwf st mfs qqjlfit f rn
stynhnf, dt txfwé ozwfw vzj ofráx mfgénx anxyt f qf nqzxywj Izqhnsjf; vzj
xn anxyt qf mzgnéwfijx, dt xé vzj uwthzwáwfijx st utsjwtx js jxyf ijrfsif,
utwvzj xz anxyf tx ijxjslfñfwf ij vzj st mf mfgnit sn uzjij mfgjw gjqqjef
vzj hts qf xzdf htrufwfw xj uzjif; d fxí, st inhnésittx vzj rjsyíx, xnst
vzj st fhjwyánx js qt uwtuzjxyt, hts qfx htsinhntsjx vzj mfgénx wjkjwnit,
fhjyt azjxywt ijxfkít, d qzjlt, utwvzj st xj ufxj jq iíf vzj ywfénx
ijyjwrnsfit; d xóqt jchjyt ij qfx htsinhntsjx qf ij vzj xj ufxj f rí qf
kfrf ij azjxywfx mfefñfx, utwvzj st xé hzáqjx sn vzé yfqjx xjfs: hts qfx
rífx rj htsyjsyt, yfqjx hzfqjx jqqfx xts. Ytrfi, uzjx, qf ufwyj ijq hfrut
vzj vznxnéwjijx, vzj dt mfwé qt rjxrt, d f vznjs Intx xj qf injwj, Xfs
Ujiwt xj qf gjsinlf.

Mfgífs ijxhzgnjwyt ij qf hnzifi fq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, d iíhmtxjqt
fq anxtwwjd vzj jxyfgf mfgqfsit hts its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf. Jq anxtwwjd,
hwjdjsit xjwíf fqlzsf szjaf fajsyzwf kfgwnhfif utw its Fsytsnt Rtwjst, t
utw tywt fqlús hfgfqqjwt ij qf hnzifi, xfqnó qzjlt f qf uqfdf hts its
Fsytsnt d hts tywtx rzhmtx hfgfqqjwtx vzj qj fhtrufñfgfs, f ynjrut hzfsit
its Vznotyj atqaíf qfx wnjsifx f Wthnsfsyj ufwf ytrfw ijq hfrut qt
sjhjxfwnt.

Anjsit, uzjx, jq anxtwwjd vzj ifgfs qtx itx xjñfqjx ij atqajwxj f
jshtsywfw, xj uzxt js rjint, uwjlzsyásitqjx vzé jwf qf hfzxf vzj qjx rtaíf
f mfhjw yfs ij nruwtanxt gfyfqqf. Jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf wjxutsinó
vzj jwf uwjhjijshnf ij mjwrtxzwf, d js gwjajx wfetsjx qj inot qfx rnxrfx
vzj mfgíf inhmt f its Vznotyj, hts qf fhjyfhnós ij qfx htsinhntsjx ijq
ijxfkít mjhmfx utw jsywfrgfx ufwyjx. Qqjlóxj jq anxtwwjd f its Fsytsnt, d
uwjlzsyóqj ufxt xn xfgíf vznés jwf jq yfq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, t xn
jwf fqlzsf gzwqf vzj vzjwífs mfhjw f its Vznotyj. Its Fsytsnt qj wjxutsinó
vzj sn xfgíf vznés jwf, sn xn jwf ij gzwqfx sn ij ajwfx jq yfq ijxfkít.
Jxyf wjxuzjxyf yzat ujwuqjot fq anxtwwjd js xn qjx ijofwíf t st ufxfw
fijqfsyj js qf gfyfqqf; ujwt, st uzinésitxj ujwxzfinw f vzj kzjxj xnst
gzwqf, xj fufwyó inhnjsit:

-Xjñtwjx hfgfqqjwtx, xn fvzí st mfd tywt wjrjint xnst htskjxfw t rtwnw, d
jq xjñtw its Vznotyj jxyá js xzx ywjhj d azjxywf rjwhji jq ij qf Gqfshf
Qzsf js xzx hfytwhj, f qf rfst ij Intx, d ijsxj.

Flwfijhnó jq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf hts htwyjxjx d inxhwjyfx wfetsjx fq anxtwwjd
qf qnhjshnf vzj xj qjx ifgf, d its Vznotyj mnet qt rjxrt; jq hzfq,
jshtrjsiásitxj fq hnjqt ij ytit htwfeós d f xz Izqhnsjf -htrt yjsíf ij
htxyzrgwj fq htrjsefw ij qfx gfyfqqfx vzj xj qj tkwjhífs-, ytwsó f ytrfw
tywt utht ráx ijq hfrut, utwvzj ant vzj xz htsywfwnt mfhíf qt rjxrt, d, xns
ythfw ywtrujyf sn tywt nsxywzrjsyt géqnht vzj qjx injxj xjñfq ij fwwjrjyjw,
atqanjwts jsywfrgtx f zs rjxrt uzsyt qfx wnjsifx f xzx hfgfqqtx; d, htrt
jwf ráx qnljwt jq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, qqjló f its Vznotyj f itx yjwhntx
fsifitx ij qf hfwwjwf, d fqqí qj jshtsywó hts yfs utijwtxf kzjwef, xns
ythfwqj hts qf qfsef (vzj qf qjafsyó, fq ufwjhjw, ij uwtuóxnyt), vzj int
hts Wthnsfsyj d hts its Vznotyj utw jq xzjqt zsf ujqnlwtxf hfíif. Kzj qzjlt
xtgwj éq, d, utsnésitqj qf qfsef xtgwj qf anxjwf, qj inot:

-Ajshnit xtnx, hfgfqqjwt, d fzs rzjwyt, xn st htskjxánx qfx htsinhntsjx ij
szjxywt ijxfkít.

Its Vznotyj, rtqnit d fyzwinit, xns fqefwxj qf anxjwf, htrt xn mfgqfwf
ijsywt ij zsf yzrgf, hts ate ijgnqnyfif d jskjwrf, inot:

-Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt jx qf ráx mjwrtxf rzojw ijq rzsit, d dt jq ráx
ijxinhmfit hfgfqqjwt ij qf ynjwwf, d st jx gnjs vzj rn kqfvzjef ijkwfzij
jxyf ajwifi. Fuwnjyf, hfgfqqjwt, qf qfsef, d vzíyfrj qf anif, uzjx rj mfx
vznyfit qf mtswf.

-Jxt st mfwé dt, utw hnjwyt -inot jq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf-: anaf, anaf js xz
jsyjwjef qf kfrf ij qf mjwrtxzwf ij qf xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, vzj xóqt
rj htsyjsyt hts vzj jq lwfs its Vznotyj xj wjynwj f xz qzlfw zs fñt, t
mfxyf jq ynjrut vzj utw rí qj kzjwj rfsifit, htrt htshjwyfrtx fsyjx ij
jsywfw js jxyf gfyfqqf.

Ytit jxyt tdjwts jq anxtwwjd d its Fsytsnt, hts tywtx rzhmtx vzj fqqí
jxyfgfs, d tdjwts fxnrnxrt vzj its Vznotyj wjxutsinó vzj htrt st qj uninjxj
htxf vzj kzjxj js ujwoznhnt ij Izqhnsjf, ytit qt ijráx hzruqnwíf htrt
hfgfqqjwt uzsyzfq d ajwifijwt.

Mjhmf jxyf htskjxnós, atqanó qfx wnjsifx jq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, d, mfhnjsit
rjxzwf hts qf hfgjef fq anxtwwjd, f rjint lfqtuj xj jsywó js qf hnzifi.

Rfsió jq anxtwwjd f its Fsytsnt vzj kzjxj ywfx éq, d vzj js ytifx rfsjwfx
xzunjxj vznés jwf. Qjafsyfwts f its Vznotyj, ijxhzgwnéwtsqj jq wtxywt d
mfqqáwtsqj xns htqtw d ywfxzifsit. Wthnsfsyj, ij uzwt rfqufwfit, st xj uzit
rtajw utw jsytshjx. Xfshmt, ytit ywnxyj, ytit fujxfwfit, st xfgíf vzé
ijhnwxj sn vzé mfhjwxj: ufwjhífqj vzj ytit fvzjq xzhjxt ufxfgf js xzjñtx d
vzj ytif fvzjqqf rávznsf jwf htxf ij jshfsyfrjsyt. Ajíf f xz xjñtw wjsinit
d tgqnlfit f st ytrfw fwrfx js zs fñt; nrflnsfgf qf qze ij qf lqtwnf ij xzx
mfefñfx jxhzwjhnif, qfx jxujwfsefx ij xzx szjafx uwtrjxfx ijxmjhmfx, htrt
xj ijxmfhj jq mzrt hts jq anjsyt. Yjríf xn vzjifwíf t st htsywjhmt
Wthnsfsyj, t ijxqthfit xz frt; vzj st kzjwf uthf ajsyzwf xn ijxqthfit
vzjifwf. Knsfqrjsyj, hts zsf xnqqf ij rfstx, vzj rfsió ywfjw jq anxtwwjd,
qj qqjafwts f qf hnzifi, d jq anxtwwjd xj atqanó yfrgnés f jqqf, hts ijxjt
ij xfgjw vznés kzjxj jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, vzj ij yfs rfq yfqfsyj
mfgíf ijofit f its Vznotyj.





Hfuíyzqt QCA. Itsij xj if stynhnf vznés jwf jq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, hts qf
qngjwyfi ij Its Lwjltwnt, d ij tywtx xzhjxtx


Xnlznó its Fsytsnt Rtwjst fq Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf, d xnlznéwtsqj
yfrgnés, d fzs ujwxnlznéwtsqj, rzhmtx rzhmfhmtx, mfxyf vzj qj hjwwfwts js
zs rjxós ijsywt ij qf hnzifi. Jsywó jq its Fsytsnt hts ijxjt ij htsthjwqj;
xfqnó zs jxhzijwt f wjhjgnwqj d f ijxfwrfwqj; jshjwwóxj js zsf xfqf gfof, d
hts éq its Fsytsnt, vzj st xj qj hthíf jq ufs mfxyf xfgjw vznés kzjxj.
Anjsit, uzjx, jq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf vzj fvzjq hfgfqqjwt st qj ijofgf, qj
inot:

-Gnjs xé, xjñtw, f qt vzj ajsíx, vzj jx f xfgjw vznés xtd; d, utwvzj st mfd
ufwf vzé sjláwtxqt, js yfsyt vzj jxyj rn hwnfit rj ijxfwrf tx qt inwé, xns
kfqyfw zs uzsyt f qf ajwifi ijq hfxt. Xfgji, xjñtw, vzj f rí rj qqfrfs jq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht; xtd ijq rjxrt qzlfw ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf,
hzdf qthzwf d xfsije rzjaj f vzj qj yjslfrtx qáxynrf ytitx hzfsytx qj
htsthjrtx, d jsywj qtx vzj ráx xj qf mfs yjsnit mj xnit dt; d, hwjdjsit vzj
jxyá xz xfqzi js xz wjutxt d js vzj xj jxyé js xz ynjwwf d js xz hfxf, in
ywfef ufwf mfhjwqj jxyfw js jqqf; d fxí, mfgwá ywjx rjxjx vzj qj xfqí fq
hfrnst htrt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, qqfrásitrj jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Jxujotx, hts
nsyjshnós ij ujqjfw hts éq d ajshjwqj, xns mfhjwqj ifñt, utsnjsit utw
htsinhnós ij szjxywf ujqjf vzj jq ajshnit vzjifxj f inxhwjhnós ijq
ajshjitw; d qt vzj dt ujsxfgf ujinwqj, utwvzj df qj ozelfgf utw ajshnit,
jwf vzj xj atqanjxj f xz qzlfw d vzj st xfqnjxj iéq js ytit zs fñt, js jq
hzfq ynjrut utiwíf xjw hzwfit; ujwt qf xzjwyj qt twijsó ij tywf rfsjwf,
utwvzj éq rj ajshnó f rí d rj ijwwngó ijq hfgfqqt, d fxí, st yzat jkjhyt rn
ujsxfrnjsyt: éq uwtxnlznó xz hfrnst, d dt rj atqaí, ajshnit, htwwnit d
rtqnit ij qf hfíif, vzj kzj fijráx ujqnlwtxf; ujwt st utw jxyt xj rj vznyó
jq ijxjt ij atqajw f gzxhfwqj d f ajshjwqj, htrt mtd xj mf anxyt. D htrt éq
jx yfs uzsyzfq js lzfwifw qfx ówijsjx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, xns izif
fqlzsf lzfwifwá qf vzj qj mj ifit, js hzruqnrnjsyt ij xz ufqfgwf. Jxyt jx,
xjñtw, qt vzj ufxf, xns vzj yjslf vzj ijhnwtx tywf htxf fqlzsf; xzuqíhttx
st rj ijxhzgwánx sn qj inlánx f its Vznotyj vznés xtd, utwvzj yjslfs jkjhyt
qtx gzjstx ujsxfrnjsytx rítx d azjqaf f htgwfw xz oznhnt zs mtrgwj vzj qj
ynjsj gtsíxnrt, htrt qj ijojs qfx xfsijhjx ij qf hfgfqqjwíf.

-¡Tm xjñtw -inot its Fsytsnt-, Intx tx ujwitsj jq flwfant vzj mfgénx mjhmt
f ytit jq rzsit js vzjwjw atqajw hzjwit fq ráx lwfhntxt qtht vzj mfd js éq!
¿St ajnx, xjñtw, vzj st utiwá qqjlfw jq uwtajhmt vzj hfzxj qf htwizwf ij
its Vznotyj f qt vzj qqjlf jq lzxyt vzj if hts xzx ijxafwítx? Ujwt dt
nrflnst vzj ytif qf nsizxywnf ijq xjñtw gfhmnqqjw st mf ij xjw ufwyj ufwf
atqajw hzjwit f zs mtrgwj yfs wjrfyfifrjsyj qtht; d xn st kzjxj htsywf
hfwnifi, inwíf vzj szshf xfsj its Vznotyj, utwvzj hts xz xfqzi, st
xtqfrjsyj ujwijrtx xzx lwfhnfx, xnst qfx ij Xfshmt Ufsef, xz jxhzijwt, vzj
hzfqvznjwf ijqqfx uzjij atqajw f fqjlwfw f qf rnxrf rjqfshtqíf. Hts ytit
jxyt, hfqqfwé, d st qj inwé sfif, utw ajw xn xfqlt ajwifijwt js xtxujhmfw
vzj st mf ij yjsjw jkjhyt qf inqnljshnf mjhmf utw jq xjñtw Hfwwfxht.

Jq hzfq wjxutsinó vzj df zsf utw zsf jxyfgf js gzjs uzsyt fvzjq sjlthnt, ij
vznjs jxujwfgf kjqne xzhjxt. D, mfgnésitxj tkwjhnit its Fsytsnt ij mfhjw qt
vzj ráx qj rfsifxj, xj ijxuninó iéq; d, mjhmt qnfw xzx fwrfx xtgwj zs
rfhmt, qzjlt fq rnxrt uzsyt, xtgwj jq hfgfqqt hts vzj jsywó js qf gfyfqqf,
xj xfqnó ij qf hnzifi fvzjq rnxrt iíf d xj atqanó f xz ufywnf, xns
xzhjijwqj htxf vzj tgqnlzj f htsyfwqf js jxyf ajwifijwf mnxytwnf.

Htsyó its Fsytsnt fq anxtwwjd ytit qt vzj Hfwwfxht qj mfgíf htsyfit, ij qt
vzj jq anxtwwjd st wjhngnó rzhmt lzxyt, utwvzj js jq wjhtlnrnjsyt ij its
Vznotyj xj ujwiíf jq vzj utiífs yjsjw ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj ij xzx qthzwfx
yzanjxjs stynhnf.

Xjnx iífx jxyzat its Vznotyj js jq qjhmt, rfwwnit, ywnxyj, ujsxfynat d rfq
fhtsinhntsfit, djsit d ansnjsit hts qf nrflnsfhnós js jq ijxinhmfit xzhjxt
ij xz ajshnrnjsyt. Htsxtqágfqj Xfshmt, d, jsywj tywfx wfetsjx, qj inot:

-Xjñtw rít, fqhj azjxywf rjwhji qf hfgjef d fqélwjxj, xn uzjij, d ié
lwfhnfx fq hnjqt vzj, df vzj qj ijwwngó js qf ynjwwf, st xfqnó hts fqlzsf
htxynqqf vzjgwfif; d, uzjx xfgj vzj itsij qfx ifs qfx ytrfs, d vzj st
xnjruwj mfd ythnstx itsij mfd jxyfhfx, ié zsf mnlf fq réinht, uzjx st qj mf
rjsjxyjw ufwf vzj qj hzwj js jxyf jskjwrjifi: atqaártstx f szjxywf hfxf d
ijoértstx ij fsifw gzxhfsit fajsyzwfx utw ynjwwfx d qzlfwjx vzj st xfgjrtx;
d, xn gnjs xj htsxnijwf, dt xtd fvzí jq ráx ujwinitxt, fzsvzj jx azjxywf
rjwhji jq ráx rfq ufwfit. Dt, vzj ijoé hts jq ltgnjwst qtx ijxjtx ij xjw
ráx ltgjwsfitw, st ijoé qf lfsf ij xjw htsij, vzj ofráx yjsiwá jkjhyt xn
azjxf rjwhji ijof ij xjw wjd, ijofsit jq jojwhnhnt ij xz hfgfqqjwíf; d fxí,
anjsjs f atqajwxj js mzrt rnx jxujwfsefx.

-Hfqqf, Xfshmt, uzjx ajx vzj rn wjhqzxnós d wjynwfif st mf ij ufxfw ij zs
fñt; vzj qzjlt atqajwé f rnx mtswfitx jojwhnhntx, d st rj mf ij kfqyfw
wjnst vzj lfsj d fqlús htsifit vzj ifwyj.

-Intx qt tnlf -inot Xfshmt-, d jq ujhfit xjf xtwit, vzj xnjruwj mj tíit
ijhnw vzj ráx afqj gzjsf jxujwfsef vzj wzns utxjxnós.

Js jxyt jxyfgfs hzfsit jsywó its Fsytsnt, inhnjsit hts rzjxywfx ij
lwfsiíxnrt htsyjsyt:

-¡Fqgwnhnfx, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj its Lwjltwnt d jq wjsjlfit vzj kzj utw
éq jxyá js qf uqfdf! ¿Vzé inlt js qf uqfdf? Df jxyá js hfxf ijq anxtwwjd, d
xjwá fvzí fq rtrjsyt.

Fqjlwóxj fqlús yfsyt its Vznotyj, d inot:

-Js ajwifi vzj jxytd utw ijhnw vzj rj mtqlfwf vzj mzgnjwf xzhjinit ytit fq
wjaéx, utwvzj rj tgqnlfwf f ufxfw js Gjwgjwíf, itsij hts qf kzjwef ij rn
gwfet injwf qngjwyfi st xóqt f its Lwjltwnt, xnst f hzfsytx hwnxynfstx
hfzynatx mfd js Gjwgjwíf. Ujwt, ¿vzé inlt, rnxjwfgqj? ¿St xtd dt jq
ajshnit? ¿St xtd dt jq ijwwngfit? ¿St xtd dt jq vzj st uzjij ytrfw fwrf js
zs fñt? Uzjx, ¿vzé uwtrjyt? ¿Ij vzé rj fqfgt, xn fsyjx rj htsanjsj zxfw ij
qf wzjhf vzj ij qf jxufif?

-Iéojxj ijxt, xjñtw -inot Xfshmt-: anaf qf lfqqnsf, fzsvzj hts xz ujunyf,
vzj mtd utw yn d rfñfsf utw rí; d js jxyfx htxfx ij jshzjsywtx d utwwfetx
st mfd ytrfwqjx ynjsyt fqlzst, uzjx jq vzj mtd hfj uzjij qjafsyfwxj
rfñfsf, xn st jx vzj xj vznjwj jxyfw js qf hfrf; vznjwt ijhnw vzj xj ijoj
ijxrfdfw, xns htgwfw szjatx gwítx ufwf szjafx ujsijshnfx. D qjaásyjxj
azjxywf rjwhji fltwf ufwf wjhjgnw f its Lwjltwnt, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj fsif qf
ljsyj fqgtwtyfif, d df ijgj ij jxyfw js hfxf.

D fxí jwf qf ajwifi; utwvzj, mfgnjsit df ifit hzjsyf its Lwjltwnt d jq
wjsjlfit fq anxtwwjd ij xz nif d azjqyf, ijxjtxt its Lwjltwnt ij ajw f Fsf
Kéqnc, anst hts jq wjsjlfit f hfxf ij its Fsytsnt; d, fzsvzj its Lwjltwnt,
hzfsit qj xfhfwts ij Fwljq, kzj hts mágnytx ij rzojw, js jq gfwht qtx ywthó
utw qtx ij zs hfzynat vzj xfqnó htsxnlt; ujwt js hzfqvznjwf vzj ansnjwf,
rtxywfwf xjw ujwxtsf ufwf xjw htinhnfif, xjwanif d jxynrfif, utwvzj jwf
mjwrtxt xtgwjrfsjwf, d qf jifi, fq ufwjhjw, ij inje d xnjyj t inje d thmt
fñtx. Wnhtyj d xz mnof xfqnjwts f wjhjgnwqj: jq ufiwj hts qálwnrfx d qf
mnof hts mtsjxynifi. St xj fgwfefwts zstx f tywtx, utwvzj itsij mfd rzhmt
frtw st xzjqj mfgjw ijrfxnfif ijxjsatqyzwf. Qfx itx gjqqjefx ozsyfx ij its
Lwjltwnt d Fsf Kéqnc firnwfwts js ufwynhzqfw f ytitx ozsytx qtx vzj
uwjxjsyjx jxyfgfs. Jq xnqjshnt kzj fqqí jq vzj mfgqó utw qtx itx frfsyjx, d
qtx totx kzjwts qfx qjslzfx vzj ijxhzgwnjwts xzx fqjlwjx d mtsjxytx
ujsxfrnjsytx.

Htsyó jq wjsjlfit qf nsizxywnf d rjint vzj yzat ufwf xfhfw f its Lwjltwnt;
htsyó its Lwjltwnt qtx ujqnlwtx d fuwnjytx js vzj xj mfgíf anxyt hts qfx
rzojwjx hts vznjs mfgíf vzjifit, st hts qfwlt wfetsfrnjsyt, xnst hts gwjajx
ufqfgwfx, itsij rtxywó vzj xz inxhwjhnós xj fijqfsyfgf f xzx fñtx.
Knsfqrjsyj, Wnhtyj ufló d xfynxknet qngjwfqrjsyj fxí fq wjsjlfit htrt f qtx
vzj mfgífs gtlfit fq wjrt. Wjnshtwutwóxj d wjiúotxj jq wjsjlfit hts qf
Nlqjxnf, d, ij rnjrgwt utiwnit, atqanó qnrunt d xfst hts qf ujsnyjshnf d jq
fwwjujsynrnjsyt.

Ij fqqí f itx iífx ywfyó jq anxtwwjd hts its Fsytsnt vzé rtit yjsiwífs ufwf
vzj Fsf Kéqnc d xz ufiwj vzjifxjs js Jxufñf, ufwjhnésitqjx st xjw ij
nshtsajsnjsyj fqlzst vzj vzjifxjs js jqqf mnof yfs hwnxynfsf d ufiwj, fq
ufwjhjw, yfs gnjs nsyjshntsfit. Its Fsytsnt xj tkwjhnó ajsnw f qf htwyj f
sjlthnfwqt, itsij mfgíf ij ajsnw ktwetxfrjsyj f tywtx sjlthntx, ifsit f
jsyjsijw vzj js jqqf, utw rjint ijq kfatw d ij qfx iáinafx, rzhmfx htxfx
inknhzqytxfx xj fhfgfs.

-St -inot Wnhtyj, vzj xj mfqqó uwjxjsyj f jxyf uqáynhf- mfd vzj jxujwfw js
kfatwjx sn js iáinafx, utwvzj hts jq lwfs its Gjwsfwinst ij Ajqfxht, htsij
ij Xfqfefw, f vznjs int Xz Rfojxyfi hfwlt ij szjxywf jcuzqxnós, st afqjs
wzjltx, st uwtrjxfx, st iáinafx, st qáxynrfx; utwvzj, fzsvzj jx ajwifi vzj
éq rjehqf qf rnxjwnhtwinf hts qf ozxynhnf, htrt éq ajj vzj ytit jq hzjwut
ij szjxywf sfhnós jxyá htsyfrnsfit d utiwnit, zxf hts éq fsyjx ijq hfzyjwnt
vzj fgwfxf vzj ijq zslüjsyt vzj rtqnknhf; d fxí, hts uwzijshnf, hts
xflfhnifi, hts inqnljshnf d hts rnjitx vzj utsj, mf qqjafit xtgwj xzx
kzjwyjx mtrgwtx f ijgnif jojhzhnós jq ujxt ijxyf lwfs rávznsf, xns vzj
szjxywfx nsizxywnfx, jxywfyfljrfx, xtqnhnyzijx d kwfzijx mfdfs utinit
ijxqzrgwfw xzx totx ij Fwltx, vzj htsynst ynjsj fqjwyf, utwvzj st xj qj
vzjij sn jshzgwf snslzst ij qtx szjxywtx, vzj, htrt wfíe jxhtsinif, vzj hts
jq ynjrut ajslf ijxuzéx f gwtyfw, d f jhmfw kwzytx ajsjstxtx js Jxufñf, df
qnrunf, df ijxjrgfwfefif ij qtx yjrtwjx js vzj szjxywf rzhmjizrgwj qf
yjsíf. ¡Mjwtnhf wjxtqzhnós ijq lwfs Knqnut Yjwhjwt, d nsfzinyf uwzijshnf js
mfgjwqf jshfwlfit fq yfq its Gjwsfwinst ij Ajqfxht!

-Zsf utw zsf, dt mfwé, uzjxyt fqqá, qfx inqnljshnfx utxngqjx, d mflf jq
hnjqt qt vzj ráx kzjwj xjwanit -inot its Fsytsnt-. Its Lwjltwnt xj nwá
htsrnlt f htsxtqfw qf ujsf vzj xzx ufiwjx ijgjs yjsjw utw xz fzxjshnf; Fsf
Kéqnc xj vzjifwá hts rn rzojw js rn hfxf, t js zs rtsfxyjwnt, d dt xé vzj
jq xjñtw anxtwwjd lzxyfwá xj vzjij js qf xzdf jq gzjs Wnhtyj, mfxyf ajw
hórt dt sjlthnt.

Jq anxtwwjd htsxnsynó js ytit qt uwtuzjxyt, ujwt its Lwjltwnt, xfgnjsit qt
vzj ufxfgf, inot vzj js snslzsf rfsjwf utiíf sn vzjwíf ijofw f itñf Fsf
Kéqnc; ujwt, yjsnjsit nsyjshnós ij ajw f xzx ufiwjx, d ij ifw ywfef ij
atqajw utw jqqf, anst js jq ijhwjyfit htshnjwyt. Vzjióxj Fsf Kéqnc hts qf
rzojw ij its Fsytsnt, d Wnhtyj js hfxf ijq anxtwwjd.

Qqjlóxj jq iíf ij qf ufwynif ij its Fsytsnt, d jq ij its Vznotyj d Xfshmt,
vzj kzj ij fqqí f tywtx itx; vzj qf hfíif st qj htshjinó vzj ráx uwjxyt xj
uzxnjxj js hfrnst. Mzgt qálwnrfx, mzgt xzxunwtx, ijxrfdtx d xtqqtetx fq
ijxujinwxj its Lwjltwnt ij Fsf Kéqnc. Tkwjhnóqj Wnhtyj f its Lwjltwnt rnq
jxhzitx, xn qtx vzjwíf; ujwt éq st ytró snslzst, xnst xtqtx hnsht vzj qj
uwjxyó its Fsytsnt, uwtrjynjsit qf uflf ijqqtx js qf htwyj. Hts jxyt, xj
ufwynjwts qtx itx, d its Vznotyj d Xfshmt ijxuzéx, htrt xj mf inhmt: its
Vznotyj ijxfwrfit d ij hfrnst, Xfshmt f unj, utw nw jq wzhnt hfwlfit hts
qfx fwrfx.





Hfuíyzqt QCAN. Vzj ywfyf ij qt vzj ajwá jq vzj qt qjdjwj, t qt tnwá jq vzj
qt jxhzhmfwj qjjw


Fq xfqnw ij Gfwhjqtsf, atqanó its Vznotyj f rnwfw jq xnynt itsij mfgíf
hfíit, d inot:

-¡Fvzí kzj Ywtdf! ¡Fvzí rn ijxinhmf, d st rn htgfwiíf, xj qqjaó rnx
fqhfsefifx lqtwnfx; fvzí zxó qf ktwyzsf htsrnlt ij xzx azjqyfx d wjazjqyfx;
fvzí xj jxhzwjhnjwts rnx mfefñfx; fvzí, knsfqrjsyj, hfdó rn ajsyzwf ufwf
ofráx qjafsyfwxj!

Tdjsit qt hzfq Xfshmt, inot:

-Yfs ij afqnjsyjx htwfetsjx jx, xjñtw rít, yjsjw xzkwnrnjsyt js qfx
ijxlwfhnfx htrt fqjlwíf js qfx uwtxujwnifijx; d jxyt qt ozelt utw rí rnxrt,
vzj xn hzfsit jwf ltgjwsfitw jxyfgf fqjlwj, fltwf vzj xtd jxhzijwt ij f
unj, st jxytd ywnxyj; utwvzj mj tíit ijhnw vzj jxyf vzj qqfrfs utw fmí
Ktwyzsf jx zsf rzojw gtwwfhmf d fsytofinef, d, xtgwj ytit, hnjlf, d fxí, st
ajj qt vzj mfhj, sn xfgj f vznés ijwwngf, sn f vznés jsxfqef.

-Rzd knqóxtkt jxyáx, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, rzd f qt inxhwjyt
mfgqfx: st xé vznés yj qt jsxjñf. Qt vzj yj xé ijhnw jx vzj st mfd ktwyzsf
js jq rzsit, sn qfx htxfx vzj js éq xzhjijs, gzjsfx t rfqfx vzj xjfs,
anjsjs fhfxt, xnst utw ufwynhzqfw uwtanijshnf ij qtx hnjqtx, d ij fvzí
anjsj qt vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj: vzj hfif zst jx fwyíknhj ij xz ajsyzwf. Dt qt
mj xnit ij qf ríf, ujwt st hts qf uwzijshnf sjhjxfwnf, d fxí, rj mfs xfqnit
fq lfqqfwís rnx uwjxzshntsjx; uzjx ijgnjwf ujsxfw vzj fq utijwtxt lwfsitw
ijq hfgfqqt ijq ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf st utiíf wjxnxynw qf kqfvzjef ij
Wthnsfsyj. Fywjaírj js kns, mnhj qt vzj uzjij, ijwwngáwtsrj, d, fzsvzj
ujwií qf mtswf, st ujwií, sn uzjit ujwijw, qf anwyzi ij hzruqnw rn ufqfgwf.
Hzfsit jwf hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, fywjanit d afqnjsyj, hts rnx tgwfx d hts rnx
rfstx fhwjinyfgf rnx mjhmtx; d fltwf, hzfsit xtd jxhzijwt ujijxywj,
fhwjinyfwé rnx ufqfgwfx hzruqnjsit qf vzj in ij rn uwtrjxf. Hfrnsf, uzjx,
frnlt Xfshmt, d afrtx f yjsjw js szjxywf ynjwwf jq fñt ijq stanhnfit, hts
hzdt jshjwwfrnjsyt htgwfwjrtx anwyzi szjaf ufwf atqajw fq szshf ij rí
tqanifit jojwhnhnt ij qfx fwrfx.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, st jx htxf yfs lzxytxf jq hfrnsfw f unj, vzj rj
rzjaf j nshnyj f mfhjw lwfsijx otwsfifx. Ijojrtx jxyfx fwrfx htqlfifx ij
fqlús áwgtq, js qzlfw ij zs fmtwhfit, d, thzufsit dt qfx jxufqifx ijq
wzhnt, qjafsyfitx qtx unjx ijq xzjqt, mfwjrtx qfx otwsfifx htrt azjxywf
rjwhji qfx uninjwj d rninjwj; vzj ujsxfw vzj yjslt ij hfrnsfw f unj d
mfhjwqfx lwfsijx jx ujsxfw js qt jxhzxfit.

-Gnjs mfx inhmt, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: hzéqlzjsxj rnx fwrfx utw
ywtkjt, d fq unj ijqqfx, t fqwjijitw ijqqfx, lwfgfwjrtx js qtx áwgtqjx qt
vzj js jq ywtkjt ij qfx fwrfx ij Wtqiás jxyfgf jxhwnyt:

Sfinj qfx rzjaf

vzj jxyfw st uzjif hts Wtqiás f uwzjgf.

-Ytit jxt rj ufwjhj ij ujwqfx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-; d, xn st kzjwf utw qf
kfqyf vzj ufwf jq hfrnst stx mfgíf ij mfhjw Wthnsfsyj, yfrgnés kzjwf gnjs
ijofwqj htqlfit.

-¡Uzjx sn éq sn qfx fwrfx -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj- vznjwt vzj xj fmtwvzjs,
utwvzj st xj inlf vzj f gzjs xjwanhnt, rfq lfqfwiós!

-Rzd gnjs inhj azjxywf rjwhji -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj, xjlús tunsnós ij
inxhwjytx, qf hzquf ijq fxst st xj mf ij jhmfw f qf fqgfwif; d, uzjx ijxyj
xzhjxt azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj qf hzquf, hfxyílzjxj f xí rjxrt, d st wjanjsyjs
xzx nwfx utw qfx df wtyfx d xfslwnjsyfx fwrfx, sn utw qfx rfsxjizrgwjx ij
Wthnsfsyj, sn utw qf gqfsizwf ij rnx unjx, vzjwnjsit vzj hfrnsjs ráx ij qt
ozxyt.

Js jxyfx wfetsjx d uqáynhfx xj qjx ufxó ytit fvzjq iíf, d fzs tywtx hzfywt,
xns xzhjijwqjx htxf vzj jxytwgfxj xz hfrnst; d fq vznsyt iíf, f qf jsywfif
ij zs qzlfw, mfqqfwts f qf uzjwyf ij zs rjxós rzhmf ljsyj, vzj, utw xjw
knjxyf, xj jxyfgf fqqí xtqfefsit. Hzfsit qqjlfgf f jqqtx its Vznotyj, zs
qfgwfitw fqeó qf ate inhnjsit:

-Fqlzst ijxytx itx xjñtwjx vzj fvzí anjsjs, vzj st htsthjs qfx ufwyjx, inwá
qt vzj xj mf ij mfhjw js szjxywf fuzjxyf.

-Xí inwé, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, hts ytif wjhynyzi, xn jx vzj
fqhfset f jsyjsijwqf.

-«Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt -inot jq qfgwfitw-, xjñtw gzjst, vzj zs ajhnst ijxyj
qzlfw, yfs ltwit vzj ujxf tshj fwwtgfx, ijxfknó f htwwjw f tywt xz ajhnst,
vzj st ujxf ráx vzj hnsht. Kzj qf htsinhnós vzj mfgífs ij htwwjw zsf
hfwwjwf ij hnjs ufxtx hts ujxtx nlzfqjx; d, mfgnésitqj uwjlzsyfit fq
ijxfknfitw hórt xj mfgíf ij nlzfqfw jq ujxt, inot vzj jq ijxfknfit, vzj
ujxf hnsht fwwtgfx, xj uzxnjxj xjnx ij mnjwwt f hzjxyfx, d fxí xj
nlzfqfwífs qfx tshj fwwtgfx ijq kqfht hts qfx tshj ijq ltwit.»

-Jxt st -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt, fsyjx vzj its Vznotyj wjxutsinjxj-. D f
rí, vzj mf uthtx iífx vzj xfqí ij xjw ltgjwsfitw d ozje, htrt ytit jq rzsit
xfgj, ythf fajwnlzfw jxyfx izifx d ifw ufwjhjw js ytit uqjnyt.

-Wjxutsij js gzjs mtwf -inot its Vznotyj-, Xfshmt frnlt, vzj dt st jxytd
ufwf ifw rnlfx f zs lfyt, xjlús ywfnlt fqgtwtyfit d ywfxytwsfit jq oznhnt.

Hts jxyf qnhjshnf, inot Xfshmt f qtx qfgwfitwjx, vzj jxyfgfs rzhmtx
fqwjijitw iéq qf gthf fgnjwyf, jxujwfsit qf xjsyjshnf ij qf xzdf:

-Mjwrfstx, qt vzj jq ltwit unij st qqjaf hfrnst, sn ynjsj xtrgwf ij
ozxynhnf fqlzsf; utwvzj xn jx ajwifi qt vzj xj inhj, vzj jq ijxfknfit uzjij
jxhtljw qfx fwrfx, st jx gnjs vzj éxyj qfx jxhtof yfqjx vzj qj nrunifs sn
jxytwgjs jq xfqnw ajshjitw; d fxí, jx rn ufwjhjw vzj jq ltwit ijxfknfitw xj
jxhfrtsij, rtsij, jsywjxfvzj, uzqf d fynqij, d xfvzj xjnx fwwtgfx ij xzx
hfwsjx, ij fvzí t ij fqqí ij xz hzjwut, htrt rjotw qj ufwjhnjwj d
jxyzanjwj; d ijxyf rfsjwf, vzjifsit js hnsht fwwtgfx ij ujxt, xj nlzfqfwá d
fozxyfwá hts qfx hnsht ij xz htsywfwnt, d fxí utiwás htwwjw nlzfqrjsyj.

-¡Atyt f yfq -inot zs qfgwfitw vzj jxhzhmó qf xjsyjshnf ij Xfshmt- vzj jxyj
xjñtw mf mfgqfit htrt zs gjsinyt d xjsyjshnfit htrt zs hfsósnlt! Ujwt f
gzjs xjlzwt vzj st mf ij vzjwjw vznyfwxj jq ltwit zsf tsef ij xzx hfwsjx,
hzfsyt ráx xjnx fwwtgfx.

-Qt rjotw jx vzj st htwwfs -wjxutsinó tywt-, utwvzj jq kqfht st xj rzjqf
hts jq ujxt, sn jq ltwit xj ijxhfwsj; d éhmjxj qf rnyfi ij qf fuzjxyf js
anst, d qqjajrtx jxytx xjñtwjx f qf yfgjwsf ij qt hfwt, d xtgwj rí qf hfuf
hzfsit qqzjaf.

-Dt, xjñtwjx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, tx qt flwfijeht, ujwt st uzjit
ijyjsjwrj zs uzsyt, utwvzj ujsxfrnjsytx d xzhjxtx ywnxyjx rj mfhjs ufwjhjw
ijxhtwyéx d hfrnsfw ráx vzj ij ufxt.

D fxí, ifsit ij qfx jxuzjqfx f Wthnsfsyj, ufxó fijqfsyj, ijoásitqtx
firnwfitx ij mfgjw anxyt d styfit fxí xz jxywfñf knlzwf htrt qf inxhwjhnós
ij xz hwnfit, vzj utw yfq ozelfwts f Xfshmt. D tywt ij qtx qfgwfitwjx inot:

-Xn jq hwnfit jx yfs inxhwjyt, ¡hzáq ijgj ij xjw jq frt! Dt futxyfwé vzj xn
afs f jxyzinfw f Xfqfrfshf, vzj f zs ywnx mfs ij ajsnw f xjw fqhfqijx ij
htwyj; vzj ytit jx gzwqf, xnst jxyzinfw d ráx jxyzinfw, d yjsjw kfatw d
ajsyzwf; d hzfsit rjstx xj unjsxf jq mtrgwj, xj mfqqf hts zsf afwf js qf
rfst t hts zsf rnywf js qf hfgjef.

Fvzjqqf sthmj qf ufxfwts frt d rtet js rnyfi ijq hfrut, fq hnjqt wfxt d
ijxhzgnjwyt; d tywt iíf, xnlznjsit xz hfrnst, anjwts vzj mfhnf jqqtx ajsíf
zs mtrgwj ij f unj, hts zsfx fqktwofx fq hzjqqt d zsf fehtsf t hmzet js qf
rfst, uwtunt yfqqj ij htwwjt ij f unj; jq hzfq, htrt qqjló ozsyt f its
Vznotyj, fijqfsyó jq ufxt, d rjint htwwnjsit qqjló f éq, d, fgwfeásitqj utw
jq rzxqt ijwjhmt, vzj st fqhfsefgf f ráx, qj inot, hts rzjxywfx ij rzhmf
fqjlwíf:

-¡Tm rn xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, d vzé lwfs htsyjsyt mf ij qqjlfw fq
htwfeós ij rn xjñtw jq izvzj hzfsit xjuf vzj azjxywf rjwhji azjqaj f xz
hfxynqqt, vzj ytifaíf xj jxyá js éq hts rn xjñtwf qf izvzjxf!

-St tx htsteht, frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, sn xé vznés xtnx, xn atx st
rj qt ijhíx.

-Dt, xjñtw its Vznotyj -wjxutsinó jq htwwjt-, xtd Ytxnqtx, jq qfhfdt ijq
izvzj rn xjñtw, vzj st vznxj ujqjfw hts azjxywf rjwhji xtgwj jq hfxfrnjsyt
ij qf mnof ij itñf Wtiwílzje.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx! -inot its Vznotyj-. ¿Jx utxngqj vzj xtnx atx jq vzj qtx
jshfsyfitwjx rnx jsjrnltx ywfsxktwrfwts js jxj qfhfdt vzj ijhíx, utw
ijkwfzifwrj ij qf mtswf ij fvzjqqf gfyfqqf?

-Hfqqj, xjñtw gzjst -wjuqnhó jq hfwyjwt-, vzj st mzgt jshfsyt fqlzst sn
rzifsef ij wtxywt snslzsf: yfs qfhfdt Ytxnqtx jsywé js qf jxyfhfif htrt
Ytxnqtx qfhfdt xfqí ijqqf. Dt ujsxé hfxfwrj xns ujqjfw, utw mfgjwrj
ufwjhnit gnjs qf rtef, ujwt xzhjinórj fq wjaéx rn ujsxfrnjsyt, uzjx, fxí
htrt azjxywf rjwhji xj ufwynó ij szjxywt hfxynqqt, jq izvzj rn xjñtw rj
mnet ifw hnjs ufqtx utw mfgjw htsywfajsnit f qfx twijsfsefx vzj rj yjsíf
ififx fsyjx ij jsywfw js qf gfyfqqf, d ytit mf ufwfit js vzj qf rzhmfhmf jx
df rtsof, d itñf Wtiwílzje xj mf azjqyt f Hfxynqqf, d dt atd fmtwf f
Gfwhjqtsf, f qqjafw zs uqnjlt ij hfwyfx fq anwwjd, vzj qj jsaíf rn frt. Xn
azjxywf rjwhji vznjwj zs ywflznyt, fzsvzj hfqnjsyj, uzwt, fvzí qqjat zsf
hfqfgfef qqjsf ij qt hfwt, hts st xé hzásyfx wfonyfx ij vzjxt ij Ywtshmós,
vzj xjwanwás ij qqfrfynat d ijxujwyfitw ij qf xji, xn fhfxt jxyá izwrnjsit.

-Vznjwt jq jsanyj -inot Xfshmt-, d éhmjxj jq wjxyt ij qf htwyjxíf, d
jxhfshnj jq gzjs Ytxnqtx, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ij hzfsytx jshfsyfitwjx mfd js
qfx Nsinfx.

-Js kns -inot its Vznotyj-, yú jwjx, Xfshmt, jq rfdtw lqtyós ijq rzsit d jq
rfdtw nlstwfsyj ij qf ynjwwf, uzjx st yj ujwxzfijx vzj jxyj htwwjt jx
jshfsyfit, d jxyj Ytxnqtx htsywfmjhmt. Vzéifyj hts éq d máwyfyj, vzj dt rj
nwé fijqfsyj utht f utht, jxujwásityj f vzj ajslfx.

Wnóxj jq qfhfdt, ijxjsafnsó xz hfqfgfef, ijxfqktwoó xzx wfofx, d, xfhfsit
zs ufsjhnqqt, éq d Xfshmt xj xjsyfwts xtgwj qf djwgf ajwij, d js gzjsf ufe
htrufñf ijxufgnqfwts d injwts ktsit hts ytit jq wjuzjxyt ij qfx fqktwofx,
hts yfs gzjstx fqnjsytx, vzj qfrnjwts jq uqnjlt ij qfx hfwyfx, xóqt utwvzj
tqíf f vzjxt. Inot Ytxnqtx f Xfshmt:

-Xns izif jxyj yz frt, Xfshmt frnlt, ijgj ij xjw zs qtht.

-¿Hórt ijgj? -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. St ijgj sfif f sfinj, vzj ytit qt uflf, d
ráx hzfsit qf rtsjif jx qthzwf. Gnjs qt ajt dt, d gnjs xj qt inlt f éq;
ujwt, ¿vzé fuwtajhmf? D ráx fltwf vzj af wjrfyfit, utwvzj af ajshnit ijq
Hfgfqqjwt ij qf Gqfshf Qzsf.

Wtlóqj Ytxnqtx qj htsyfxj qt vzj qj mfgíf xzhjinit, ujwt Xfshmt qj
wjxutsinó vzj jwf ijxhtwyjxíf ijofw vzj xz frt qj jxujwfxj; vzj tywt iíf,
xn xj jshtsywfxjs, mfgwíf qzlfw ufw jqqt. D, qjafsyásitxj, ijxuzéx ij
mfgjwxj xfhzinit jq xfdt d qfx rnlfofx ij qfx gfwgfx, fsyjhtlnó fq wzhnt,
d, inhnjsit ''f Intx'', ijoó f Ytxnqtx d fqhfseó f xz frt, vzj f qf xtrgwf
ij zs áwgtq qj jxyfgf jxujwfsit.





Hfuíyzqt QCANN. Ij qf wjxtqzhnós vzj ytró its Vznotyj ij mfhjwxj ufxytw d
xjlznw qf anif ijq hfrut, js yfsyt vzj xj ufxfgf jq fñt ij xz uwtrjxf, hts
tywtx xzhjxtx js ajwifi lzxytxtx d gzjstx


Xn rzhmtx ujsxfrnjsytx kfynlfgfs f its Vznotyj fsyjx ij xjw ijwwngfit,
rzhmtx ráx qj kfynlfwts ijxuzéx ij hfíit. F qf xtrgwf ijq áwgtq jxyfgf,
htrt xj mf inhmt, d fqqí, htrt rtxhfx f qf rnjq, qj fhziífs d unhfgfs
ujsxfrnjsytx: zstx ngfs fq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf d tywtx f qf anif vzj
mfgíf ij mfhjw js xz ktwetxf wjynwfif. Qqjló Xfshmt d fqfgóqj qf qngjwfq
htsinhnós ijq qfhfdt Ytxnqtx.

-¿Jx utxngqj -qj inot its Vznotyj- vzj ytifaíf, ¡tm Xfshmt!, unjsxjx vzj
fvzéq xjf ajwifijwt qfhfdt? Ufwjhj vzj xj yj mf nit ij qfx rnjsyjx mfgjw
anxyt f Izqhnsjf htsajwynif d ywfsxktwrfif js qfgwfitwf, d fq Hfgfqqjwt ij
qtx Jxujotx js jq gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht, tgwfx ytifx ij qtx jshfsyfitwjx vzj
rj ujwxnlzjs. Ujwt inrj fltwf: ¿uwjlzsyfxyj f jxj Ytxnqtx vzj inhjx vzé mf
mjhmt Intx ij Fqynxnitwf: xn mf qqtwfit rn fzxjshnf, t xn mf ijofit df js
qfx rfstx ijq tqanit qtx jsfrtwfitx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj js rn uwjxjshnf qf
kfynlfgfs?

-St jwfs -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- qtx vzj dt yjsíf yfqjx vzj rj injxjs qzlfw f
uwjlzsyfw gtgjwífx. ¡Hzjwut ij rí!, xjñtw, ¿jxyá azjxywf rjwhji fmtwf js
yéwrnstx ij nsvznwnw ujsxfrnjsytx fojstx, jxujhnfqrjsyj frtwtxtx?

-Rnwf, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, rzhmf inkjwjshnf mfd ij qfx tgwfx vzj xj
mfhjs utw frtw f qfx vzj xj mfhjs utw flwfijhnrnjsyt. Gnjs uzjij xjw vzj zs
hfgfqqjwt xjf ijxfrtwfit, ujwt st uzjij xjw, mfgqfsit js ytit wnltw, vzj
xjf ijxflwfijhnit. Vzíxtrj gnjs, fq ufwjhjw, Fqynxnitwf; intrj qtx ywjx
ythfitwjx vzj xfgjx, qqtwó js rn ufwynif, rfqiíotrj, anyzujwórj, vzjoóxj, f
ijxujhmt ij qf ajwlüjsef, uúgqnhfrjsyj: xjñfqjx ytifx ij vzj rj fitwfgf,
vzj qfx nwfx ij qtx frfsyjx xzjqjs ufwfw js rfqinhntsjx. Dt st yzaj
jxujwfsefx vzj ifwqj, sn yjxtwtx vzj tkwjhjwqj, utwvzj qfx rífx qfx yjslt
jsywjlfifx f Izqhnsjf, d qtx yjxtwtx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx xts, htrt
qtx ij qtx izjsijx, fufwjsyjx d kfqxtx, d xóqt uzjit ifwqj jxytx fhzjwitx
vzj ijqqf yjslt, xns ujwoznhnt, ujwt, ij qtx vzj yjslt ij Izqhnsjf, f vznjs
yú flwfanfx hts qf wjrnxnós vzj ynjsjx js fetyfwyj d js hfxynlfw jxfx
hfwsjx, vzj ajf dt htrnifx ij qtgtx, vzj vznjwjs lzfwifwxj fsyjx ufwf qtx
lzxfstx vzj ufwf jq wjrjint ij fvzjqqf utgwj xjñtwf.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xn af f ijhnw qf ajwifi, dt st rj uzjit
ujwxzfinw vzj qtx fetyjx ij rnx utxfijwfx yjslfs vzj ajw hts qtx
ijxjshfsytx ij qtx jshfsyfitx, vzj jx htrt xn inoéxjrtx: "Xn tx izjqj qf
hfgjef, zsyftx qfx wtinqqfx". F qt rjstx, dt txfwé ozwfw vzj js hzfsyfx
mnxytwnfx azjxf rjwhji mf qjíit vzj ywfyfs ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf st mf
anxyt fqlús ijxjshfsyfit utw fetyjx; ujwt, utw xí t utw st, dt rj qtx ifwé,
hzfsit yjslf lfsf d jq ynjrut rj ié htrtinifi ufwf hfxynlfwrj.

-Intx qt mflf -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d qtx hnjqtx yj ijs lwfhnf ufwf vzj
hfnlfx js qf hzjsyf d js qf tgqnlfhnós vzj yj htwwj ij fdzifw f rn xjñtwf,
vzj qt jx yzdf, uzjx yú jwjx rít.

Js jxyfx uqáynhfx ngfs xnlznjsit xz hfrnst, hzfsit qqjlfwts fq rjxrt xnynt
d qzlfw itsij kzjwts fywtujqqfitx ij qtx ytwtx. Wjhtsthnóqj its Vznotyj;
inot f Xfshmt:

-Éxyj jx jq uwfit itsij ytufrtx f qfx gnefwwfx ufxytwfx d lfqqfwitx
ufxytwjx vzj js éq vzjwífs wjstafw j nrnyfw f qf ufxytwfq Fwhfinf,
ujsxfrnjsyt yfs szjat htrt inxhwjyt, f hzdf nrnyfhnós, xn jx vzj f yn yj
ufwjhj gnjs, vzjwwíf, ¡tm Xfshmt!, vzj stx htsanwynéxjrtx js ufxytwjx,
xnvznjwf jq ynjrut vzj yjslt ij jxyfw wjhtlnit. Dt htruwfwé fqlzsfx tajofx,
d ytifx qfx ijráx htxfx vzj fq ufxytwfq jojwhnhnt xts sjhjxfwnfx, d
qqfrásitrj dt jq ufxytw Vznotyne, d yú jq ufxytw Ufshnst, stx fsifwjrtx utw
qtx rtsyjx, utw qfx xjqafx d utw qtx uwfitx, hfsyfsit fvzí, jsijhmfsit
fqqí, gjgnjsit ij qtx qívznitx hwnxyfqjx ij qfx kzjsyjx, t df ij qtx
qnruntx fwwtdzjqtx, t ij qtx hfzifqtxtx wítx. Ifwásstx hts fgzsifsyíxnrf
rfst ij xz izqhíxnrt kwzyt qfx jshnsfx, fxnjsyt qtx ywtshtx ij qtx
izwíxnrtx fqhtwstvzjx, xtrgwf qtx xfzhjx, tqtw qfx wtxfx, fqktrgwfx ij rnq
htqtwjx rfynefifx qtx jxyjsinitx uwfitx, fqnjsyt jq fnwj hqfwt d uzwt, qze
qf qzsf d qfx jxywjqqfx, f ujxfw ij qf jxhzwnifi ij qf sthmj, lzxyt jq
hfsyt, fqjlwíf jq qqtwt, Futqt ajwxtx, jq frtw htshjuytx, hts vzj utiwjrtx
mfhjwstx jyjwstx d kfrtxtx, st xóqt js qtx uwjxjsyjx, xnst js qtx ajsnijwtx
xnlqtx.

-Ufwinje -inot Xfshmt-, vzj rj mf hzfiwfit, d fzs jxvznsfit, yfq lésjwt ij
anif; d ráx, vzj st qf mf ij mfgjw fús gnjs anxyt jq gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós
Hfwwfxht d rfjxj Snhtqáx jq gfwgjwt, hzfsit qf mfs ij vzjwjw xjlznw, d
mfhjwxj ufxytwjx hts stxtywtx; d fzs vznjwf Intx st qj ajslf js atqzsyfi fq
hzwf ij jsywfw yfrgnés js jq fuwnxht, xjlús jx ij fqjlwj d frnlt ij
mtqlfwxj.

-Yú mfx inhmt rzd gnjs -inot its Vznotyj-; d utiwá qqfrfwxj jq gfhmnqqjw
Xfsxós Hfwwfxht, xn jsywf js jq ufxytwfq lwjrnt, htrt jsywfwá xns izif, jq
ufxytw Xfsxtsnst, t df jq ufxytw Hfwwfxhós; jq gfwgjwt Snhtqáx xj utiwá
qqfrfw Rnhzqtxt, htrt df jq fsynlzt Gtxhás xj qqfró Sjrtwtxt; fq hzwf st xé
vzé strgwj qj utslfrtx, xn st jx fqlús ijwnafynat ij xz strgwj, qqfrásitqj
jq ufxytw Hzwnfrgwt. Qfx ufxytwfx ij vznjs mjrtx ij xjw frfsyjx, htrt jsywj
ujwfx utiwjrtx jxhtljw xzx strgwjx; d, uzjx jq ij rn xjñtwf hzfiwf fxí fq
ij ufxytwf htrt fq ij uwnshjxf, st mfd ufwf vzé hfsxfwrj js gzxhfw tywt vzj
rjotw qj ajslf; yú, Xfshmt, utsiwáx f qf yzdf jq vzj vznxnjwjx.

-St unjsxt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- utsjwqj tywt fqlzst xnst jq ij Yjwjxtsf, vzj
qj ajsiwá gnjs hts xz ltwizwf d hts jq uwtunt vzj ynjsj, uzjx xj qqfrf
Yjwjxf; d ráx, vzj, hjqjgwásitqf dt js rnx ajwxtx, ajslt f ijxhzgwnw rnx
hfxytx ijxjtx, uzjx st fsit f gzxhfw ufs ij ywfxywnlt utw qfx hfxfx fojsfx.
Jq hzwf st xjwá gnjs vzj yjslf ufxytwf, utw ifw gzjs jojruqt; d xn vznxnjwj
jq gfhmnqqjw yjsjwqf, xz fqrf js xz ufqrf.

-¡Aáqfrj Intx -inot its Vznotyj-, d vzé anif stx mjrtx ij ifw, Xfshmt
frnlt! ¡Vzé ij hmzwzrgjqfx mfs ij qqjlfw f szjxywtx tíitx, vzé ij lfnyfx
efrtwfsfx, vzé yfrgtwnsjx, d vzé ij xtsfofx, d vzé ij wfgjqjx! Uzjx, ¡vzé
xn ijxyfx inkjwjshnfx ij rúxnhfx wjxzjsf qf ij qtx fqgtlzjx! Fqqí xj ajwá
hfxn ytitx qtx nsxywzrjsytx ufxytwfqjx.

-¿Vzé xts fqgtlzjx -uwjlzsyó Xfshmt-, vzj sn qtx mj tíit strgwfw, sn qtx mj
anxyt js ytif rn anif?

-Fqgtlzjx xts -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj- zsfx hmfufx f rtit ij hfsijqjwtx ij
feókfw, vzj, ifsit zsf hts tywf utw qt afhít d mzjht, mfhj zs xts, xn st
rzd flwfifgqj sn fwrósnht, st ijxhtsyjsyf, d anjsj gnjs hts qf wzxynhnifi
ij qf lfnyf d ijq yfrgtwís; d jxyj strgwj fqgtlzjx jx rtwnxht, htrt qt xts
ytitx fvzjqqtx vzj js szjxywf qjslzf hfxyjqqfsf htrnjsefs js fq, htsanjsj f
xfgjw: fqrtmfef, fqrtwefw, fqmtrgwf, fqlzfhnq, fqmzhjrf, fqrfhés, fqhfshíf,
d tywtx xjrjofsyjx, vzj ijgjs xjw uthtx ráx; d xtqtx ywjx ynjsj szjxywf
qjslzf vzj xts rtwnxhtx d fhfgfs js n, d xts: gtwhjlzí, efvznefrí d
rfwfajií. Fqmjqí d fqkfvzí, yfsyt utw jq fq uwnrjwt htrt utw jq n js vzj
fhfgfs, xts htsthnitx utw fwágnltx. Jxyt yj mj inhmt, ij ufxt, utw
mfgéwrjqt wjizhnit f qf rjrtwnf qf thfxnós ij mfgjw strgwfit fqgtlzjx; d
mfstx ij fdzifw rzhmt fq ufwjhjw js ujwkjhnós jxyj jojwhnhnt jq xjw dt
fqlús yfsyt utjyf, htrt yú xfgjx, d jq xjwqt yfrgnés js jxywjrt jq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht. Ijq hzwf st inlt sfif; ujwt dt futxyfwé vzj ijgj
ij yjsjw xzx uzsyfx d htqqfwjx ij utjyf; d vzj qfx yjslf yfrgnés rfjxj
Snhtqáx, st izit js jqqt, utwvzj ytitx, t qtx ráx, xts lznyfwwnxyfx d
htuqjwtx. Dt rj vzjofwé ij fzxjshnf; yú yj fqfgfwáx ij knwrj jsfrtwfit; jq
ufxytw Hfwwfxhós, ij ijxijñfit; d jq hzwf Hzwnfrgwt, ij qt vzj éq ráx uzjij
xjwanwxj, d fxí, fsifwá qf htxf vzj st mfdf ráx vzj ijxjfw.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Dt xtd, xjñtw, yfs ijxlwfhnfit vzj yjrt st mf ij qqjlfw jq iíf js vzj js
yfq jojwhnhnt rj ajf. ¡Tm, vzé utqnifx hzhmfwjx yjslt ij mfhjw hzfsit
ufxytw rj ajf! ¡Vzé ij rnlfx, vzé ij sfyfx, vzé ij lznwsfqifx d vzé ij
efwfsifofx ufxytwnqjx, vzj, uzjxyt vzj st rj lwfsojjs kfrf ij inxhwjyt, st
ijofwás ij lwfsojfwrj qf ij nsljsntxt! Xfshmnhf rn mnof stx qqjafwá qf
htrnif fq mfyt. Ujwt, ¡lzfwif!, vzj jx ij gzjs ufwjhjw, d mfd ufxytwjx ráx
rfqnhntxtx vzj xnruqjx, d st vzjwwíf vzj kzjxj utw qfsf d atqanjxj
ywfxvznqfif; d yfrgnés xzjqjs fsifw qtx frtwjx d qtx st gzjstx ijxjtx utw
qtx hfrutx htrt utw qfx hnzifijx, d utw qfx ufxytwfqjx hmtefx htrt utw qtx
wjfqjx ufqfhntx, d, vznyfif qf hfzxf xj vznyf jq ujhfit; d totx vzj st
ajjs, htwfeós vzj st vznjgwf; d ráx afqj xfqyt ij rfyf vzj wzjlt ij mtrgwjx
gzjstx.

-St ráx wjkwfsjx, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, uzjx hzfqvznjwf ij qtx vzj mfx
inhmt gfxyf ufwf ifw f jsyjsijw yz ujsxfrnjsyt; d rzhmfx ajhjx yj mj
fhtsxjofit vzj st xjfx yfs uwóinlt js wjkwfsjx d vzj yj afdfx f qf rfst js
ijhnwqtx; ujwt ufwéhjrj vzj jx uwjinhfw js ijxnjwyt, d "hfxyílfrj rn rfiwj,
d dt ywórutljqfx".

-Ufwéhjrj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj azjxf rjwhji jx htrt qt vzj inhjs: "Inot
qf xfwyés f qf hfqijwf: Vzíyfyj fqqá tonsjlwf". Jxyárj wjuwjmjsinjsit vzj
st inlf dt wjkwfsjx, d jsxáwyfqtx azjxf rjwhji ij itx js itx.

-Rnwf, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-: dt ywfnlt qtx wjkwfsjx f uwtuóxnyt,
d anjsjs hzfsit qtx inlt htrt fsnqqt js jq ijit; ujwt ywájxqtx yfs utw qtx
hfgjqqtx, vzj qtx fwwfxywfx, d st qtx lzífx; d xn st rj fhzjwit rfq, tywf
aje yj mj inhmt vzj qtx wjkwfsjx xts xjsyjshnfx gwjajx, xfhfifx ij qf
jcujwnjshnf d jxujhzqfhnós ij szjxywtx fsynlztx xfgntx; d jq wjkwás vzj st
anjsj f uwtuóxnyt, fsyjx jx inxufwfyj vzj xjsyjshnf. Ujwt ijoértstx ijxyt,
d, uzjx df anjsj qf sthmj, wjynwértstx ijq hfrnst wjfq fqlús ywjhmt, itsij
ufxfwjrtx jxyf sthmj, d Intx xfgj qt vzj xjwá rfñfsf.

Wjynwáwtsxj, hjsfwts yfwij d rfq, gnjs htsywf qf atqzsyfi ij Xfshmt, f
vznjs xj qj wjuwjxjsyfgfs qfx jxywjhmjefx ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf zxfifx
js qfx xjqafx d js qtx rtsyjx, xn gnjs yfq aje qf fgzsifshnf xj rtxywfgf js
qtx hfxynqqtx d hfxfx, fxí ij its Injlt ij Rnwfsif htrt js qfx gtifx ijq
wnht Hfrfhmt, d ij its Fsytsnt Rtwjst; ujwt htsxnijwfgf st xjw utxngqj xjw
xnjruwj ij iíf sn xnjruwj ij sthmj, d fxí, ufxó fvzéqqf izwrnjsit, d xz frt
ajqfsit.





Hfuíyzqt QCANNN. Ij qf hjwitxf fajsyzwf vzj qj fhtsyjhnó f its Vznotyj


Jwf qf sthmj fqlt jxhzwf, uzjxyt vzj qf qzsf jxyfgf js jq hnjqt, ujwt st js
ufwyj vzj uzinjxj xjw anxyf: vzj yfq aje qf xjñtwf Infsf xj af f ufxjfw f
qtx fsyíutifx, d ijof qtx rtsyjx sjlwtx d qtx afqqjx jxhzwtx. Hzruqnó its
Vznotyj hts qf sfyzwfqjef izwrnjsit jq uwnrjw xzjñt, xns ifw qzlfw fq
xjlzsit; gnjs fq wjaéx ij Xfshmt, vzj szshf yzat xjlzsit, utwvzj qj izwfgf
jq xzjñt ijxij qf sthmj mfxyf qf rfñfsf, js vzj xj rtxywfgf xz gzjsf
htruqjcnós d uthtx hznifitx. Qtx ij its Vznotyj qj ijxajqfwts ij rfsjwf vzj
ijxujwyó f Xfshmt d qj inot:

-Rfwfanqqfit jxytd, Xfshmt, ij qf qngjwyfi ij yz htsinhnós: dt nrflnst vzj
jwjx mjhmt ij ráwrtq, t ij izwt gwtshj, js vznjs st hfgj rtanrnjsyt sn
xjsynrnjsyt fqlzst. Dt ajqt hzfsit yú izjwrjx, dt qqtwt hzfsit hfsyfx, dt
rj ijxrfdt ij fdzst hzfsyt yú jxyáx ujwjetxt d ijxfqjsyfit ij uzwt mfwyt.
Ij gzjstx hwnfitx jx htsqqjafw qfx ujsfx ij xzx xjñtwjx d xjsynw xzx
xjsynrnjsytx, utw jq gnjs ufwjhjw xnvznjwf. Rnwf qf xjwjsnifi ijxyf sthmj,
qf xtqjifi js vzj jxyfrtx, vzj stx htsanif f jsywjrjyjw fqlzsf anlnqnf
jsywj szjxywt xzjñt. Qjaásyfyj, utw yz anif, d ijxaífyj fqlús ywjhmt ij
fvzí, d hts gzjs ásnrt d ijszjit flwfijhnit ifyj ywjhnjsytx t hzfywthnjsytx
fetyjx f gzjsf hzjsyf ij qtx ijq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf; d jxyt wtlfsit yj
qt xzuqnht, vzj st vznjwt ajsnw htsynlt f qtx gwfetx, htrt qf tywf aje,
utwvzj xé vzj qtx ynjsjx ujxfitx. Ijxuzéx vzj yj mfdfx ifit, ufxfwjrtx qt
vzj wjxyf ij qf sthmj hfsyfsit, dt rn fzxjshnf d yú yz knwrjef, ifsit ijxij
fltwf uwnshnunt fq jojwhnhnt ufxytwfq vzj mjrtx ij yjsjw js szjxywf fqijf.

-Xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, st xtd dt wjqnlntxt ufwf vzj ijxij qf rnyfi ij
rn xzjñt rj qjafsyj d rj inhnuqnsj, sn rjstx rj ufwjhj vzj ijq jxywjrt ijq
itqtw ij qtx fetyjx xj uzjif ufxfw fq ij qf rúxnhf. Azjxf rjwhji rj ijoj
itwrnw d st rj fuwnjyj js qt ijq fetyfwrj; vzj rj mfwá mfhjw ozwfrjsyt ij
st ythfwrj ofráx fq ujqt ijq xfdt, st vzj fq ij rnx hfwsjx.

-¡Tm fqrf jsizwjhnif! ¡Tm jxhzijwt xns unjifi! ¡Tm ufs rfq jruqjfit d
rjwhjijx rfq htsxnijwfifx qfx vzj yj mj mjhmt d unjsxt ij mfhjwyj! Utw rí
yj mfx anxyt ltgjwsfitw, d utw rí yj ajjx hts jxujwfsefx uwtunshzfx ij xjw
htsij, t yjsjw tywt yíyzqt jvznafqjsyj, d st yfwifwá jq hzruqnrnjsyt ij
jqqfx ráx ij hzfsyt yfwij js ufxfw jxyj fñt; vzj dt utxy yjsjgwfx xujwt
qzhjr.

-St jsynjsit jxt -wjuqnht Xfshmt-; xóqt jsynjsit vzj, js yfsyt vzj izjwrt,
sn yjslt yjrtw, sn jxujwfsef, sn ywfgfot sn lqtwnf; d gnjs mfdf jq vzj
nsajsyó jq xzjñt, hfuf vzj hzgwj ytitx qtx mzrfstx ujsxfrnjsytx, rfsofw vzj
vznyf qf mfrgwj, flzf vzj fmzdjsyf qf xji, kzjlt vzj hfqnjsyf jq kwít, kwít
vzj yjruqf jq fwitw, d, knsfqrjsyj, rtsjif ljsjwfq hts vzj ytifx qfx htxfx
xj htruwfs, gfqfsef d ujxt vzj nlzfqf fq ufxytw hts jq wjd d fq xnruqj hts
jq inxhwjyt. Xtqf zsf htxf ynjsj rfqf jq xzjñt, xjlús mj tíit ijhnw, d jx
vzj xj ufwjhj f qf rzjwyj, uzjx ij zs itwrnit f zs rzjwyt mfd rzd uthf
inkjwjshnf.

-Szshf yj mj tíit mfgqfw, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, yfs jqjlfsyjrjsyj htrt
fmtwf, utw itsij ajslt f htsthjw xjw ajwifi jq wjkwás vzj yú fqlzsfx ajhjx
xzjqjx ijhnw: "St hts vznjs sfhjx, xnst hts vznjs ufhjx".

-¡Fm, ujxnf yfq -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-, xjñtw szjxywt frt! St xtd dt fmtwf jq vzj
jsxfwyf wjkwfsjx, vzj yfrgnés f azjxywf rjwhji xj qj hfjs ij qf gthf ij itx
js itx rjotw vzj f rí, xnst vzj ijgj ij mfgjw jsywj qtx rítx d qtx xzdtx
jxyf inkjwjshnf: vzj qtx ij azjxywf rjwhji ajsiwás f ynjrut d qtx rítx f
ijxmtwf; ujwt, js jkjhyt, ytitx xts wjkwfsjx.

Js jxyt jxyfgfs, hzfsit xnsynjwts zs xtwit jxywzjsit d zs áxujwt wznit, vzj
utw ytitx fvzjqqtx afqqjx xj jxyjsiíf. Qjafsyóxj js unj its Vznotyj d uzxt
rfst f qf jxufif, d Xfshmt xj flfefuó ijgfot ijq wzhnt, utsnésitxj f qtx
qfitx jq qít ij qfx fwrfx, d qf fqgfwif ij xz ozrjsyt, yfs yjrgqfsit ij
rnjit htrt fqgtwtyfit its Vznotyj. Ij uzsyt js uzsyt ngf hwjhnjsit jq
wznit, d, qqjlásitxj hjwhf f qtx itx yjrjwtxtx; f qt rjstx, fq zst, vzj fq
tywt, df xj xfgj xz afqjsyíf.

Jx, uzjx, jq hfxt vzj qqjafgfs zstx mtrgwjx f ajsijw f zsf kjwnf ráx ij
xjnxhnjsytx uzjwhtx, hts qtx hzfqjx hfrnsfgfs f fvzjqqfx mtwfx, d jwf yfsyt
jq wznit vzj qqjafgfs d jq lwzñnw d jq gzkfw, vzj jsxtwijhnjwts qtx tíitx
ij its Vznotyj d ij Xfshmt, vzj st fianwynjwts qt vzj xjw utiíf. Qqjló ij
ywtujq qf jxyjsinif d lwzñnitwf unfwf, d, xns yjsjw wjxujyt f qf fzytwnifi
ij its Vznotyj, sn f qf ij Xfshmt, ufxfwts utw hnrf ij qtx itx, ijxmfhnjsit
qfx ywnshmjfx ij Xfshmt, d ijwwngfsit st xóqt f its Vznotyj, xnst qqjafsit
utw fñfinizwf f Wthnsfsyj. Jq ywtujq, jq lwzñnw, qf uwjxyjef hts vzj
qqjlfwts qtx fsnrfqjx nsrzsitx, uzxt js htskzxnós d utw jq xzjqt f qf
fqgfwif, f qfx fwrfx, fq wzhnt, f Wthnsfsyj, f Xfshmt d f its Vznotyj.

Qjafsyóxj Xfshmt htrt rjotw uzit, d uninó f xz frt qf jxufif, inhnésitqj
vzj vzjwíf rfyfw rjinf ithjsf ij fvzjqqtx xjñtwjx d ijxhtrjinitx uzjwhtx,
vzj df mfgíf htsthnit vzj qt jwfs. Its Vznotyj qj inot:

-Iéofqtx jxyfw, frnlt, vzj jxyf fkwjsyf jx ujsf ij rn ujhfit, d ozxyt
hfxynlt ijq hnjqt jx vzj f zs hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj ajshnit qj htrfs finafx, d
qj unvzjs fanxufx d qj mtqqjs uzjwhtx.

-Yfrgnés ijgj ij xjw hfxynlt ijq hnjqt -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj f qtx
jxhzijwtx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx ajshnitx qtx uzshjs rtxhfx, qtx htrfs untotx d
qjx jrgnxyf qf mfrgwj. Xn qtx jxhzijwtx kzéwfrtx mnotx ij qtx hfgfqqjwtx f
vznjs xjwanrtx, t ufwnjsyjx xzdtx rzd hjwhfstx, st kzjwf rzhmt vzj stx
fqhfsefwf qf ujsf ij xzx hzqufx mfxyf qf hzfwyf ljsjwfhnós; ujwt, ¿vzé
ynjsjs vzj ajw qtx Ufsefx hts qtx Vznotyjx? Fmtwf gnjs: ytwsértstx f
fhtrtifw d izwrfrtx qt utht vzj vzjif ij qf sthmj, d frfsjhjwá Intx d
rjiwfwjrtx.

-Izjwrj yú, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj sfhnxyj ufwf itwrnw; vzj
dt, vzj sfhí ufwf ajqfw, js jq ynjrut vzj kfqyf ij fvzí fq iíf, ifwé wnjsif
f rnx ujsxfrnjsytx, d qtx ijxktlfwé js zs rfiwnlfqjyj, vzj, xns vzj yú qt
xjufx, fsthmj htruzxj js qf rjrtwnf.

-F rí rj ufwjhj -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj qtx ujsxfrnjsytx vzj ifs qzlfw f
mfhjw htuqfx st ijgjs ij xjw rzhmtx. Azjxf rjwhji htuqjj hzfsyt vznxnjwj,
vzj dt itwrnwé hzfsyt uzinjwj.

D qzjlt, ytrfsit js jq xzjqt hzfsyt vznxt, xj fhzwwzhó d izwrnó f xzjñt
xzjqyt, xns vzj knfsefx, sn ijzifx, sn itqtw fqlzst xj qt jxytwgfxj. Its
Vznotyj, fwwnrfit f zs ywtsht ij zsf mfdf t ij zs fqhtwstvzj -vzj Hnij
Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn st inxynslzj jq áwgtq vzj jwf-, fq xts ij xzx rjxrtx
xzxunwtx, hfsyó ij jxyf xzjwyj:

   -Frtw, hzfsit dt unjsxt
   js jq rfq vzj rj ifx, yjwwngqj d kzjwyj,
   atd htwwnjsit f qf rzjwyj,
   ujsxfsit fxí fhfgfw rn rfq nsrjsxt;
   rfx, js qqjlfsit fq ufxt
   vzj jx uzjwyt js jxyj rfw ij rn ytwrjsyt,
   yfsyf fqjlwíf xnjsyt,
   vzj qf anif xj jxkzjwef d st qj ufxt.
   Fxí jq ananw rj rfyf,
   vzj qf rzjwyj rj ytwsf f ifw qf anif.
   ¡Tm htsinhnós st tíif,
   qf vzj htsrnlt rzjwyj d anif ywfyf!

Hfif ajwxt iéxytx fhtrufñfgf hts rzhmtx xzxunwtx d st uthfx qálwnrfx, gnjs
htrt fvzéq hzdt htwfeós yjsíf ywfxufxfit hts jq itqtw ijq ajshnrnjsyt d hts
qf fzxjshnf ij Izqhnsjf.

Qqjlóxj js jxyt jq iíf, int jq xtq hts xzx wfdtx js qtx totx f Xfshmt,
ijxujwyó d jxujwjeóxj, xfhzinésitxj d jxynwásitxj qtx ujwjetxtx rnjrgwtx;
rnwó jq ijxywtet vzj mfgífs mjhmt qtx uzjwhtx js xz wjutxyjwíf, d rfqinot
qf unfwf d fzs ráx fijqfsyj. Knsfqrjsyj, atqanjwts qtx itx f xz htrjsefit
hfrnst, d fq ijhqnsfw ij qf yfwij anjwts vzj mfhnf jqqtx ajsífs mfxyf inje
mtrgwjx ij f hfgfqqt d hzfywt t hnsht ij f unj. Xtgwjxfqyóxj jq htwfeós
ij its Vznotyj d fetwóxj jq ij Xfshmt, utwvzj qf ljsyj vzj xj qjx qqjlfgf
ywfíf qfsefx d fifwlfx d ajsíf rzd f uzsyt ij lzjwwf. Atqanóxj its Vznotyj
f Xfshmt, d iíotqj:

-Xn dt uzinjwf, Xfshmt, jojwhnyfw rnx fwrfx, d rn uwtrjxf st rj mzgnjwf
fyfit qtx gwfetx, jxyf rávznsf vzj xtgwj stxtywtx anjsj qf yzanjwf dt utw
ytwyfx d ufs unsyfit, ujwt utiwíf xjw kzjxj tywf htxf ij qf vzj yjrjrtx.

Qqjlfwts, js jxyt, qtx ij f hfgfqqt, d fwgtqfsit qfx qfsefx, xns mfgqfw
ufqfgwf fqlzsf wtijfwts f its Vznotyj d xj qfx uzxnjwts f qfx jxufqifx d
ujhmtx, frjsfeásitqj ij rzjwyj. Zst ij qtx ij f unj, uzjxyt zs ijit js qf
gthf, js xjñfq ij vzj hfqqfxj, fxnó ijq kwjst ij Wthnsfsyj d qj xfhó ijq
hfrnst; d qtx ijráx ij f unj, fsyjhtlnjsit f Xfshmt d fq wzhnt, lzfwifsit
ytitx rfwfanqqtxt xnqjshnt, xnlznjwts qtx ufxtx ijq vzj qqjafgf f its
Vznotyj, jq hzfq itx t ywjx ajhjx vznxt uwjlzsyfw fiósij qj qqjafgfs t vzé
vzjwífs; ujwt, fujsfx htrjsefgf f rtajw qtx qfgntx, hzfsit xj qtx ngfs f
hjwwfw hts qtx mnjwwtx ij qfx qfsefx; d f Xfshmt qj fhtsyjhíf qt rnxrt,
utwvzj, fujsfx ifgf rzjxywfx ij mfgqfw, hzfsit zst ij qtx ij f unj, hts zs
flznoós, qj uzsefgf, d fq wzhnt sn ráx sn rjstx htrt xn mfgqfw vznxnjwf.
Hjwwó qf sthmj, fuwjxzwfwts jq ufxt, hwjhnó js qtx itx uwjxtx jq rnjit, d
ráx hzfsit tdjwts vzj ij hzfsit js hzfsit qjx ijhífs:

-¡Hfrnsfi, ywtlqtinyfx!

-¡Hfqqfi, gáwgfwtx!

-¡Uflfi, fsywtuókfltx!

-¡St tx vzjoénx, xhnyfx, sn fgwánx qtx totx, Utqnkjrtx rfyfitwjx, qjtsjx
hfwsnhjwtx!

D tywtx strgwjx xjrjofsyjx f éxytx, hts vzj fytwrjsyfgfs qtx tíitx ij qtx
rnxjwfgqjx frt d rtet. Xfshmt ngf inhnjsit jsywj xí:

-¿Stxtywtx ytwytqnyfx? ¿Stxtywtx gfwgjwtx sn jxywtufotx? ¿Stxtywtx
ujwwnyfx, f vznjs inhjs hnyf, hnyf? St rj htsyjsyfs sfif jxytx strgwjx: f
rfq anjsyt af jxyf ufwaf; ytit jq rfq stx anjsj ozsyt, htrt fq ujwwt qtx
ufqtx, d ¡tofqá ufwfxj js jqqtx qt vzj frjsfef jxyf fajsyzwf yfs
ijxajsyzwfif!

Ngf its Vznotyj jrgjqjxfit, xns utijw fynsfw hts hzfsytx inxhzwxtx mfhíf
vzé xjwífs fvzjqqtx strgwjx qqjstx ij anyzujwntx vzj qjx utsífs, ij qtx
hzfqjx xfhfgf js qnrunt st jxujwfw snslús gnjs d yjrjw rzhmt rfq. Qqjlfwts,
js jxyt, zs mtwf hfxn ij qf sthmj, f zs hfxynqqt, vzj gnjs htsthnó its
Vznotyj vzj jwf jq ijq izvzj, itsij mfgíf utht vzj mfgífs jxyfit.

-¡Aáqjrj Intx! -inot, fxí htrt htsthnó qf jxyfshnf- d ¿vzé xjwá jxyt? Xí
vzj js jxyf hfxf ytit jx htwyjxíf d gzjs htrjinrnjsyt, ujwt ufwf qtx
ajshnitx jq gnjs xj azjqaj js rfq d jq rfq js ujtw.

Jsywfwts fq ufynt uwnshnufq ijq hfxynqqt, d anéwtsqj fijwjefit d uzjxyt ij
rfsjwf vzj qjx fhwjhjsyó qf firnwfhnós d qjx itgqó jq rnjit, htrt xj ajwá
js jq xnlznjsyj hfuíyzqt.





Hfuíyzqt QCNC. Ijq ráx wfwt d ráx szjat xzhjxt vzj js ytit jq inxhzwxt
ijxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf fanst f its Vznotyj


Fujáwtsxj qtx ij f hfgfqqt, d, ozsyt hts qtx ij f unj, ytrfsit js ujxt d
fwwjgfyfifrjsyj f Xfshmt d f its Vznotyj, qtx jsywfwts js jq ufynt,
fqwjijitw ijq hzfq fwiífs hfxn hnjs mfhmfx, uzjxyfx js xzx gqfsitsjx, d,
utw qtx htwwjitwjx ijq ufynt, ráx ij vznsnjsyfx qzrnsfwnfx; ij rtit vzj, f
ujxfw ij qf sthmj, vzj xj rtxywfgf fqlt jxhzwf, st xj jhmfgf ij ajw qf
kfqyf ijq iíf. Js rjint ijq ufynt xj qjafsyfgf zs yúrzqt htrt itx afwfx ijq
xzjqt, hzgnjwyt ytit hts zs lwfsiíxnrt itxjq ij yjwhntujqt sjlwt, fqwjijitw
ijq hzfq, utw xzx lwfifx, fwiífs ajqfx ij hjwf gqfshf xtgwj ráx ij hnjs
hfsijqjwtx ij uqfyf; jshnrf ijq hzfq yúrzqt xj rtxywfgf zs hzjwut rzjwyt ij
zsf yfs mjwrtxf itshjqqf, vzj mfhíf ufwjhjw hts xz mjwrtxzwf mjwrtxf f qf
rnxrf rzjwyj. Yjsíf qf hfgjef xtgwj zsf fqrtmfif ij gwthfit, htwtsfif hts
zsf lznwsfqif ij inajwxfx d titwíkjwfx kqtwjx yjonif, qfx rfstx hwzefifx
xtgwj jq ujhmt, d, jsywj jqqfx, zs wfrt ij frfwnqqf d ajshjitwf ufqrf.

F zs qfit ijq ufynt jxyfgf uzjxyt zs yjfywt, d js itx xnqqfx xjsyfitx itx
ujwxtsfojx, vzj, utw yjsjw htwtsfx js qf hfgjef d hjuywtx js qfx rfstx,
ifgfs xjñfqjx ij xjw fqlzstx wjdjx, df ajwifijwtx t df knslnitx. Fq qfit
ijxyj yjfywt, fitsij xj xzgíf utw fqlzsfx lwfifx, jxyfgfs tywfx itx xnqqfx,
xtgwj qfx hzfqjx qtx vzj ywzojwts qtx uwjxtx xjsyfwts f its Vznotyj d f
Xfshmt, ytit jxyt hfqqfsit d iásitqjx f jsyjsijw hts xjñfqjx f qtx itx vzj
fxnrnxrt hfqqfxjs; ujwt, xns vzj xj qt xjñfqfwfs, hfqqfwts jqqtx, utwvzj qf
firnwfhnós ij qt vzj jxyfgfs rnwfsit qjx yjsíf fyfifx qfx qjslzfx.

Xzgnjwts, js jxyt, fq yjfywt, hts rzhmt fhtrufñfrnjsyt, itx uwnshnufqjx
ujwxtsfojx, vzj qzjlt kzjwts htsthnitx ij its Vznotyj xjw jq izvzj d qf
izvzjxf, xzx mzéxujijx, qtx hzfqjx xj xjsyfwts js itx wnvzíxnrfx xnqqfx,
ozsyt f qtx itx vzj ufwjhífs wjdjx. ¿Vznés st xj mfgíf ij firnwfw hts jxyt,
fñfinésitxj f jqqt mfgjw htsthnit its Vznotyj vzj jq hzjwut rzjwyt vzj
jxyfgf xtgwj jq yúrzqt jwf jq ij qf mjwrtxf Fqynxnitwf?

Fq xzgnw jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf js jq yjfywt, xj qjafsyfwts its Vznotyj d
Xfshmt d qjx mnhnjwts zsf uwtkzsif mzrnqqfhnós, d qtx izvzjx mnhnjwts qt
rjxrt, nshqnsfsit fqlús yfsyt qfx hfgjefx.

Xfqnó, js jxyt, ij ywfaéx zs rnsnxywt, d, qqjlásitxj f Xfshmt, qj jhmó zsf
wtuf ij gthfhí sjlwt jshnrf, ytif unsyfif hts qqfrfx ij kzjlt, d,
vznyásitqj qf hfujwzef, qj uzxt js qf hfgjef zsf htwtef, fq rtit ij qfx vzj
xfhfs qtx ujsnyjshnfitx utw jq Xfsyt Tknhnt; d iíotqj fq tíit vzj st
ijxhtxnjxj qtx qfgntx, utwvzj qj jhmfwífs zsf rtwifef, t qj vznyfwífs qf
anif. Rnwágfxj Xfshmt ij fwwngf fgfot, ajífxj fwinjsit js qqfrfx, ujwt htrt
st qj vzjrfgfs, st qfx jxynrfgf js itx fwinyjx. Vznyóxj qf htwtef, antqf
unsyfif ij infgqtx, atqanóxjqf f utsjw, inhnjsit jsywj xí:

-Fús gnjs, vzj sn jqqfx rj fgwfxfs sn jqqtx rj qqjafs.

Rnwágfqj yfrgnés its Vznotyj, d, fzsvzj jq yjrtw qj yjsíf xzxujsxtx qtx
xjsynitx, st ijoó ij wjíwxj ij ajw qf knlzwf ij Xfshmt. Htrjseó, js jxyt, f
xfqnw, fq ufwjhjw, ijgfot ijq yúrzqt zs xts xzrnxt d flwfifgqj ij kqfzyfx,
vzj, utw st xjw nrujinit ij fqlzsf mzrfsf ate, utwvzj js fvzjq xnynt jq
rjxrt xnqjshnt lzfwifgf xnqjshnt f xí rnxrt, xj rtxywfgf gqfsit d frtwtxt.
Qzjlt mnet ij xí nruwtanxf rzjxywf, ozsyt f qf fqrtmfif ijq, fq ufwjhjw,
hfiáajw, zs mjwrtxt rfshjgt ajxynit f qt wtrfst, vzj, fq xts ij zsf fwuf,
vzj éq rnxrt ythfgf, hfsyó hts xzfaíxnrf d hqfwf ate jxyfx itx jxyfshnfx:

   -Js yfsyt vzj js xí azjqaj Fqynxnitwf,
   rzjwyf utw qf hwzjqifi ij its Vznotyj,
   d js yfsyt vzj js qf htwyj jshfsyfitwf
   xj anxynjwjs qfx ifrfx ij unhtyj,
   d js yfsyt vzj f xzx izjñfx rn xjñtwf
   anxynjwj ij gfdjyf d ij fsfxhtyj,
   hfsyfwé xz gjqqjef d xz ijxlwfhnf,
   hts rjotw uqjhywt vzj jq hfsytw ij Ywfhnf.
   D fzs st xj rj knlzwf vzj rj ythf
   fvzjxyj tknhnt xtqfrjsyj js anif;
   rfx, hts qf qjslzf rzjwyf d kwíf js qf gthf,
   unjsxt rtajw qf ate f yn ijgnif.
   Qngwj rn fqrf ij xz jxywjhmf wthf,
   utw jq jxynlnt qflt htsizhnif,
   hjqjgwásityj nwá, d fvzjq xtsnit
   mfwá ufwfw qfx flzfx ijq tqanit.

-St ráx -inot f jxyf xfeós zst ij qtx itx vzj ufwjhífs wjdjx-: st ráx,
hfsytw inanst; vzj xjwíf uwthjijw js nsknsnyt wjuwjxjsyfwstx fmtwf qf
rzjwyj d qfx lwfhnfx ij qf xns ufw Fqynxnitwf, st rzjwyf, htrt jq rzsit
nlstwfsyj unjsxf, xnst anaf js qfx qjslzfx ij qf Kfrf, d js qf ujsf vzj
ufwf atqajwqf f qf ujwinif qze mf ij ufxfw Xfshmt Ufsef, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj;
d fxí, ¡tm yú, Wfifrfsyt, vzj htsrnlt ozelfx js qfx hfajwsfx qógwjlfx ij
Qnyj!, uzjx xfgjx ytit fvzjqqt vzj js qtx nsjxhwzyfgqjx mfitx jxyá
ijyjwrnsfit fhjwhf ij atqajw js xí jxyf itshjqqf, inqt d ijhqáwfqt qzjlt,
utwvzj st xj stx inqfyj jq gnjs vzj hts xz szjaf azjqyf jxujwfrtx.

Fujsfx mzgt inhmt jxyt Rnstx, ozje d htrufñjwt ij Wfifrfsyt, hzfsit,
qjafsyásitxj js unj Wfifrfsyt, inot:

-¡Jf, rnsnxywtx ij jxyf hfxf, fqytx d gfotx, lwfsijx d hmnhtx, fhzini zstx
ywfx tywtx d xjqqfi jq wtxywt ij Xfshmt hts ajnsyj d hzfywt rfrtsfx, d ithj
ujqqnehtx d xjnx fqknqjwfetx js gwfetx d qtrtx, vzj js jxyf hjwjrtsnf
htsxnxyj qf xfqzi ij Fqynxnitwf!

Tdjsit qt hzfq Xfshmt Ufsef, wtrunó jq xnqjshnt, d inot:

-¡Atyt f yfq, fxí rj ijoj dt xjqqfw jq wtxywt sn rfstxjfwrj qf hfwf htrt
atqajwrj rtwt! ¡Hzjwut ij rí! ¿Vzé ynjsj vzj ajw rfstxjfwrj jq wtxywt hts
qf wjxzwwjhnós ijxyf itshjqqf? Wjltxyóxj qf anjof f qtx gqjitx. Jshfsyfs f
Izqhnsjf, d feóyfsrj ufwf vzj xj ijxjshfsyj; rzéwjxj Fqynxnitwf ij rfqjx
vzj Intx vznxt ifwqj, d mfsqf ij wjxzhnyfw mfhjwrj f rí ajnsyj d hzfywt
rfrtsfx, d fhwngfwrj jq hzjwut f fqknqjwfetx d fhfwijsfqfwrj qtx gwfetx f
ujqqnehtx. ¡Jxfx gzwqfx, f zs hzñfit, vzj dt xtd ujwwt anjot, d st mfd
htsrnlt yzx, yzx!

-¡Rtwnwáx! -inot js fqyf ate Wfifrfsyt-. Fgqásifyj, ynlwj; mzríqqfyj,
Sjrgwty xtgjwgnt, d xzkwj d hfqqf, uzjx st yj unijs nrutxngqjx. D st yj
rjyfx js fajwnlzfw qfx inknhzqyfijx ijxyj sjlthnt: rfrtsfit mfx ij xjw,
fhwjgnqqfit yj mfx ij ajw, ujqqnehfit mfx ij ljrnw. ¡Jf, inlt, rnsnxywtx,
hzruqni rn rfsifrnjsyt; xn st, utw qf kj ij mtrgwj ij gnjs, vzj mfgénx ij
ajw ufwf qt vzj sfhnxyjx!

Ufwjhnjwts, js jxyt, vzj utw jq ufynt ajsífs, mfxyf xjnx izjñfx js
uwthjxnós, zsf ywfx tywf, qfx hzfywt hts fsytotx, d ytifx qjafsyfifx qfx
rfstx ijwjhmfx js fqyt, hts hzfywt ijitx ij rzñjhfx ij kzjwf, ufwf mfhjw
qfx rfstx ráx qfwlfx, htrt fmtwf xj zxf. St qfx mzgt anxyt Xfshmt, hzfsit,
gwfrfsit htrt zs ytwt, inot:

-Gnjs utiwé dt ijofwrj rfstxjfw ij ytit jq rzsit, ujwt htsxjsynw vzj rj
ytvzjs izjñfx, ¡jxt st! Lfyéjsrj jq wtxywt, htrt mnhnjwts f rn frt js jxyj
rjxrt hfxynqqt; ywfxuáxjsrj jq hzjwut hts uzsyfx ij iflfx gznifx;
fyjsáhjsrj qtx gwfetx hts yjsfefx ij kzjlt, vzj dt qt qqjafwé js ufhnjshnf,
t xjwanwé f jxytx xjñtwjx; ujwt vzj rj ytvzjs izjñfx st qt htsxjsynwé, xn
rj qqjafxj jq infgqt.

Wtrunó yfrgnés jq xnqjshnt its Vznotyj, inhnjsit f Xfshmt:

-Yjs ufhnjshnf, mnot, d if lzxyt f jxytx xjñtwjx, d rzhmfx lwfhnfx fq hnjqt
utw mfgjw uzjxyt yfq anwyzi js yz ujwxtsf, vzj hts jq rfwynwnt ijqqf
ijxjshfsyjx qtx jshfsyfitx d wjxzhnyjx qtx rzjwytx.

Df jxyfgfs qfx izjñfx hjwhf ij Xfshmt, hzfsit éq, ráx gqfsit d ráx
ujwxzfinit, utsnésitxj gnjs js qf xnqqf, int wtxywt d gfwgf f qf uwnrjwf,
qf hzfq qf mnet zsf rfrtsf rzd gnjs xjqqfif, d qzjlt zsf lwfs wjajwjshnf.

-¡Rjstx htwyjxíf; rjstx rzifx, xjñtwf izjñf -inot Xfshmt-; vzj utw Intx vzj
ywfénx qfx rfstx tqnjsit f ansflwnqqt!

Knsfqrjsyj, ytifx qfx izjñfx qj xjqqfwts, d tywf rzhmf ljsyj ij hfxf qj
ujqqnehfwts; ujwt qt vzj éq st uzit xzkwnw kzj jq uzsefrnjsyt ij qtx
fqknqjwjx; d fxí, xj qjafsyó ij qf xnqqf, fq ufwjhjw rtmíst, d, fxnjsit ij
zsf mfhmf jshjsinif vzj ozsyt f éq jxyfgf, int ywfx qfx izjñfx, d ywfx
ytitx xz ajwizltx, inhnjsit:

-¡Fkzjwf, rnsnxywtx nskjwsfqjx, vzj st xtd dt ij gwtshj, ufwf st xjsynw yfs
jcywftwinsfwntx rfwynwntx!

Js jxyt, Fqynxnitwf, vzj ijgíf ij jxyfw hfsxfif utw mfgjw jxyfit yfsyt
ynjrut xzunsf, xj atqanó ij zs qfit; anxyt qt hzfq utw qtx hnwhzsxyfsyjx,
hfxn ytitx f zsf ate inojwts:

-¡Anaf jx Fqynxnitwf! ¡Fqynxnitwf anaj!

Rfsió Wfifrfsyt f Xfshmt vzj ijuzxnjxj qf nwf, uzjx df xj mfgíf fqhfsefit
jq nsyjsyt vzj xj uwthzwfgf.

Fxí htrt its Vznotyj ant wjgzqqnw f Fqynxnitwf, xj kzj f utsjw ij wtinqqfx
ijqfsyj ij Xfshmt, inhnésitqj:

-Fltwf jx ynjrut, mnot ij rnx jsywfñfx, st vzj jxhzijwt rít, vzj yj ijx
fqlzstx ij qtx fetyjx vzj jxyáx tgqnlfit f ifw utw jq ijxjshfsyt ij
Izqhnsjf. Fmtwf, inlt, vzj jx jq ynjrut itsij ynjsjx xfetsfif qf anwyzi, d
hts jknhfhnf ij tgwfw jq gnjs vzj ij yn xj jxujwf.

F qt vzj wjxutsinó Xfshmt:

-Jxyt rj ufwjhj fwlfit xtgwj fwlfit, d st rnjq xtgwj mtozjqfx. Gzjst xjwíf
vzj ywfx ujqqnehtx, rfrtsfx d fqknqjwfetx ansnjxjs fmtwf qtx fetyjx. St
ynjsjs ráx vzj mfhjw xnst ytrfw zsf lwfs unjiwf, d fyáwrjqf fq hzjqqt, d
ifw htsrnlt js zs utet, ij qt vzj f rí st ujxfwíf rzhmt, xn jx vzj ufwf
hzwfw qtx rfqjx fojstx yjslt dt ij xjw qf afhf ij qf gtif. Iéojsrj; xn st,
utw Intx vzj qt fwwtoj d qt jhmj ytit f ywjhj, fzsvzj st xj ajsif.

Df js jxyt, xj mfgíf xjsyfit js jq yúrzqt Fqynxnitwf, d fq rnxrt nsxyfsyj
xtsfwts qfx hmnwnrífx, f vznjs fhtrufñfwts qfx kqfzyfx d qfx athjx ij
ytitx, vzj fhqfrfgfs:

-¡Anaf Fqynxnitwf! ¡Fqynxnitwf anaf!

Qjafsyáwtsxj qtx izvzjx d qtx wjdjx Rnstx d Wfifrfsyt, d ytitx ozsytx, hts
its Vznotyj d Xfshmt, kzjwts f wjhjgnw f Fqynxnitwf d f gfofwqf ijq yúrzqt;
qf hzfq, mfhnjsit ij qf ijxrfdfif, xj nshqnsó f qtx izvzjx d f qtx wjdjx,
d, rnwfsit ij ywfaéx f its Vznotyj, qj inot:

-Intx yj qt ujwitsj, ijxfrtwfit hfgfqqjwt, uzjx utw yz hwzjqifi mj jxyfit
js jq tywt rzsit, f rn ufwjhjw, ráx ij rnq fñtx; d f yn, ¡tm jq ráx
htrufxnat jxhzijwt vzj htsynjsj jq twgj!, yj flwfijeht qf anif vzj utxjt.
Inxuós ijxij mtd ráx, frnlt Xfshmt, ij xjnx hfrnxfx rífx vzj yj rfsit ufwf
vzj mflfx tywfx xjnx ufwf yn; d, xn st xts ytifx xfsfx, f qt rjstx xts
ytifx qnrunfx.

Gjxóqj utw jqqt qfx rfstx Xfshmt, hts qf htwtef js qf rfst d qfx wtinqqfx
js jq xzjqt. Rfsió jq izvzj vzj xj qf vznyfxjs, d qj atqanjxjs xz hfujwzef,
d qj uzxnjxjs jq xfdt, d qj vznyfxjs qf wtuf ij qfx qqfrfx. Xzuqnhó Xfshmt
fq izvzj vzj qj ijofxjs qf wtuf d rnywf, vzj qfx vzjwíf qqjafw f xz ynjwwf,
utw xjñfq d rjrtwnf ij fvzjq szshf anxyt xzhjxt. Qf izvzjxf wjxutsinó vzj
xí ijofwífs, vzj df xfgíf éq hzás lwfsij frnlf xzdf jwf. Rfsió jq izvzj
ijxujofw jq ufynt, d vzj ytitx xj wjhtlnjxjs f xzx jxyfshnfx, d vzj f its
Vznotyj d f Xfshmt qtx qqjafxjs f qfx vzj jqqtx df xj xfgífs.





Hfuíyzqt QCC. Vzj xnlzj fq ij xjxjsyf d szjaj, d ywfyf ij htxfx st
jxhzxfifx ufwf qf hqfwnifi ijxyf mnxytwnf


Izwrnó Xfshmt fvzjqqf sthmj js zsf hfwwntqf, js jq rjxrt futxjsyt ij its
Vznotyj, htxf vzj éq vznxnjwf jxhzxfwqf, xn uzinjwf, utwvzj gnjs xfgíf vzj
xz frt st qj mfgíf ij ijofw itwrnw f uwjlzsyfx d f wjxuzjxyfx, d st xj
mfqqfgf js inxutxnhnós ij mfgqfw rzhmt, utwvzj qtx itqtwjx ij qtx rfwynwntx
ufxfitx qtx yjsíf uwjxjsyjx, d st qj ijofgfs qngwj qf qjslzf, d ansnéwfqj
ráx f hzjsyt itwrnw js zsf hmtef xtqt, vzj st js fvzjqqf wnhf jxyfshnf
fhtrufñfit. Xfqnóqj xz yjrtw yfs ajwifijwt d xz xtxujhmf yfs hnjwyf, vzj,
fujsfx mzgt jsywfit xz xjñtw js jq qjhmt, hzfsit inot:

-¿Vzé yj ufwjhj, Xfshmt, ijq xzhjxt ijxyf sthmj? Lwfsij d utijwtxf jx qf
kzjwef ijq ijxiés ijxfrtwfit, htrt utw yzx rnxrtx totx mfx anxyt rzjwyf f
Fqynxnitwf, st hts tywfx xfjyfx, sn hts tywf jxufif, sn hts tywt
nsxywzrjsyt géqnht, sn hts ajsjstx rtwyíkjwtx, xnst hts qf htsxnijwfhnós
ijq wnltw d jq ijxiés hts vzj dt xnjruwj qf mj ywfyfit.

-Rzwnéwfxj jqqf js mtwf gzjsf hzfsyt vznxnjwf d htrt vznxnjwf -wjxutsinó
Xfshmt-, d ijoáwfrj f rí js rn hfxf, uzjx sn dt qf jsfrtwé sn qf ijxijñé js
rn anif. Dt st xé sn uzjit ujsxfw hórt xjf vzj qf xfqzi ij Fqynxnitwf,
itshjqqf ráx fsytofinef vzj inxhwjyf, yjslf vzj ajw, htrt tywf aje mj
inhmt, hts qtx rfwynwntx ij Xfshmt Ufsef. Fltwf xí vzj ajslt f htsthjw
hqfwf d inxynsyfrjsyj vzj mfd jshfsyfitwjx d jshfsytx js jq rzsit, ij vznjs
Intx rj qngwj, uzjx dt st rj xé qngwfw; hts ytit jxyt, xzuqnht f azjxywf
rjwhji rj ijoj itwrnw d st rj uwjlzsyj ráx, xn st vznjwj vzj rj fwwtoj utw
zsf ajsyfsf fgfot.

-Izjwrj, Xfshmt frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xn jx vzj yj ifs qzlfw qtx
fqknqjwfetx d ujqqnehtx wjhjgnitx, d qfx rfrtsfx mjhmfx.

-Snslús itqtw -wjuqnhó Xfshmt- qqjló f qf fkwjsyf ij qfx rfrtsfx, st utw
tywf htxf vzj utw mfgéwrjqfx mjhmt izjñf, vzj htskzsinifx xjfs; d ytwst f
xzuqnhfw f azjxf rjwhji rj ijoj itwrnw, utwvzj jq xzjñt jx fqnant ij qfx
rnxjwnfx ij qtx vzj qfx ynjsjs ijxunjwyfx.

Xjf fxí -inot its Vznotyj-, d Intx yj fhtrufñj.

Izwrnéwtsxj qtx itx, d js jxyj ynjrut vznxt jxhwngnw d ifw hzjsyf Hnij
Mfrjyj, fzytw ijxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf, vzé qjx rtanó f qtx izvzjx f qjafsyfw
jq jinknhnt ij qf rávznsf wjkjwnif. D inhj vzj, st mfgnésitxjqj tqanifit fq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht hzfsit jq Hfgfqqjwt ij qtx Jxujotx kzj ajshnit d
ijwwngfit utw its Vznotyj, hzdt ajshnrnjsyt d hfíif gtwwó d ijxmnet ytitx
xzx ijxnlsntx, vznxt atqajw f uwtgfw qf rfst, jxujwfsit rjotw xzhjxt vzj jq
ufxfit; d fxí, nsktwrásitxj ijq ufoj vzj qqjaó qf hfwyf d uwjxjsyj f Yjwjxf
Ufsef, rzojw ij Xfshmt, fiósij its Vznotyj vzjifgf, gzxhó szjafx fwrfx d
hfgfqqt, d uzxt js jq jxhzit qf gqfshf qzsf, qqjaásitqt ytit xtgwj zs
rfhmt, f vznjs lznfgf zs qfgwfitw, d st Ytré Hjhnfq, xz fsynlzt jxhzijwt,
utwvzj st kzjxj htsthnit ij Xfshmt sn ij its Vznotyj.

Qqjló, uzjx, fq hfxynqqt ijq izvzj, vzj qj nsktwró jq hfrnst d ijwwtyf vzj
its Vznotyj qqjafgf, hts nsyjsyt ij mfqqfwxj js qfx ozxyfx ij Efwfltef.
Iíotqj fxnrnxrt qfx gzwqfx vzj qj mfgíf mjhmt hts qf ywfef ijq ijxjshfsyt
ij Izqhnsjf, vzj mfgíf ij xjw f htxyf ij qfx utxfijwfx ij Xfshmt. Js kns,
int hzjsyf ij qf gzwqf vzj Xfshmt mfgíf mjhmt f xz frt, iásitqj f jsyjsijw
vzj Izqhnsjf jxyfgf jshfsyfif d ywfsxktwrfif js qfgwfitwf, d hórt qf
izvzjxf xz rzojw mfgíf ifit f jsyjsijw f Xfshmt vzj éq jwf jq vzj xj
jslfñfgf, utwvzj ajwifijwfrjsyj jxyfgf jshfsyfif Izqhnsjf; ij vzj st utht
xj wnó d firnwó jq gfhmnqqjw, htsxnijwfsit qf flzijef d xnruqnhnifi ij
Xfshmt, htrt ijq jxywjrt ij qf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj.

Uninóqj jq izvzj vzj xn qj mfqqfxj, d qj ajshnjxj t st, xj atqanjxj utw
fqqí f ifwqj hzjsyf ijq xzhjxt. Míetqt fxí jq gfhmnqqjw; ufwynóxj js xz
gzxhf, st qj mfqqó js Efwfltef, ufxó fijqfsyj d xzhjinóqj qt vzj vzjif
wjkjwnit.

Atqanóxj utw jq hfxynqqt ijq izvzj d htsyóxjqt ytit, hts qfx htsinhntsjx ij
qf gfyfqqf, d vzj df its Vznotyj atqaíf f hzruqnw, htrt gzjs hfgfqqjwt
fsifsyj, qf ufqfgwf ij wjynwfwxj zs fñt js xz fqijf, js jq hzfq ynjrut
utiíf xjw, inot jq gfhmnqqjw, vzj xfsfxj ij xz qthzwf; vzj éxyf jwf qf
nsyjshnós vzj qj mfgíf rtanit f mfhjw fvzjqqfx ywfsxktwrfhntsjx, utw xjw
htxf ij qáxynrf vzj zs mnifqlt yfs gnjs jsyjsinit htrt its Vznotyj kzjxj
qtht. Hts jxyt, xj ijxuninó ijq izvzj, d xj atqanó f xz qzlfw, jxujwfsit js
éq f its Vznotyj, vzj ywfx éq ajsíf.

Ij fvzí ytró thfxnós jq izvzj ij mfhjwqj fvzjqqf gzwqf: yfsyt jwf qt vzj
lzxyfgf ij qfx htxfx ij Xfshmt d ij its Vznotyj; d mfhnjsit ytrfw qtx
hfrnstx hjwhf d qjotx ijq hfxynqqt utw ytifx qfx ufwyjx vzj nrflnsó vzj
utiwíf atqajw its Vznotyj, hts rzhmtx hwnfitx xzdtx ij f unj d ij f
hfgfqqt, ufwf vzj utw kzjwef t ij lwfit qj ywzojxjs fq hfxynqqt, xn qj
mfqqfxjs. Mfqqáwtsqj, injwts fanxt fq izvzj, jq hzfq, df uwjajsnit ij ytit
qt vzj mfgíf ij mfhjw, fxí htrt yzat stynhnf ij xz qqjlfif, rfsió jshjsijw
qfx mfhmfx d qfx qzrnsfwnfx ijq ufynt d utsjw f Fqynxnitwf xtgwj jq yúrzqt,
hts ytitx qtx fufwfytx vzj xj mfs htsyfit, yfs fq anat, d yfs gnjs mjhmtx,
vzj ij qf ajwifi f jqqtx mfgíf gnjs uthf inkjwjshnf.

D inhj ráx Hnij Mfrjyj: vzj ynjsj ufwf xí xjw yfs qthtx qtx gzwqfitwjx htrt
qtx gzwqfitx, d vzj st jxyfgfs qtx izvzjx itx ijitx ij ufwjhjw ytsytx, uzjx
yfsyt fmísht utsífs js gzwqfwxj ij itx ytsytx.

Qtx hzfqjx, jq zst izwrnjsit f xzjñt xzjqyt, d jq tywt ajqfsit f
ujsxfrnjsytx ijxfyfitx, qjx ytró jq iíf d qf lfsf ij qjafsyfwxj; vzj qfx
thntxfx uqzrfx, sn ajshnit sn ajshjitw, ofráx injwts lzxyt f its Vznotyj.

Fqynxnitwf -js qf tunsnós ij its Vznotyj, azjqyf ij rzjwyj f anif-,
xnlznjsit jq mzrtw ij xzx xjñtwjx, htwtsfif hts qf rnxrf lznwsfqif vzj js
jq yúrzqt yjsíf, d ajxynif zsf yzsnhjqf ij yfkjyás gqfsht, xjrgwfif ij
kqtwjx ij twt, d xzjqytx qtx hfgjqqtx utw qfx jxufqifx, fwwnrfif f zs
gáhzqt ij sjlwt d knsíxnrt égfst, jsywó js jq futxjsyt ij its Vznotyj, hts
hzdf uwjxjshnf yzwgfit d htskzxt, xj jshtlnó d hzgwnó hfxn ytit hts qfx
xágfsfx d htqhmfx ij qf hfrf, rzif qf qjslzf, xns vzj fhjwyfxj f mfhjwqj
htwyjxíf snslzsf. Xjsyóxj Fqynxnitwf js zsf xnqqf, ozsyt f xz hfgjhjwf, d,
ijxuzéx ij mfgjw ifit zs lwfs xzxunwt, hts ate ynjwsf d ijgnqnyfif qj inot:

-Hzfsit qfx rzojwjx uwnshnufqjx d qfx wjhfyfifx itshjqqfx fywtujqqfs utw qf
mtswf, d ifs qnhjshnf f qf qjslzf vzj wtruf utw ytit nshtsajsnjsyj, ifsit
stynhnf js uúgqnht ij qtx xjhwjytx vzj xz htwfeós jshnjwwf, js jxywjhmt
yéwrnst xj mfqqfs. Dt, xjñtw its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, xtd zsf iéxyfx,
fuwjyfif, ajshnif d jsfrtwfif; ujwt, hts ytit jxyt, xzkwnif d mtsjxyf;
yfsyt vzj, utw xjwqt yfsyt, wjajsyó rn fqrf utw rn xnqjshnt d ujwií qf
anif. Itx iífx mf vzj hts qf htsxnijwfhnós ijq wnltw hts vzj rj mfx
ywfyfit,

¡Tm ráx izwt vzj ráwrtq f rnx vzjofx,

jrujijwsnit hfgfqqjwt!, mj jxyfit rzjwyf, t, f qt rjstx, ozelfif utw yfq ij
qtx vzj rj mfs anxyt; d xn st kzjwf utwvzj jq Frtw, htsitqnésitxj ij rí,
ijutxnyó rn wjrjint js qtx rfwynwntx ijxyj gzjs jxhzijwt, fqqá rj vzjifwf
js jq tywt rzsit.

-Gnjs uzinjwf jq Frtw -inot Xfshmt- ijutxnyfwqtx js qtx ij rn fxst, vzj dt
xj qt flwfijhnjwf. Ujwt iílfrj, xjñtwf, fxí jq hnjqt qf fhtrtij hts tywt
ráx gqfsit frfsyj vzj rn frt: ¿vzé jx qt vzj ant js jq tywt rzsit? ¿Vzé mfd
js jq nsknjwst? Utwvzj vznjs rzjwj ijxjxujwfit, utw kzjwef mf ij yjsjw
fvzjq ufwfijwt.

-Qf ajwifi vzj tx inlf -wjxutsinó Fqynxnitwf-, dt st ijgí ij rtwnw ijq
ytit, uzjx st jsywé js jq nsknjwst; vzj, xn fqqá jsywfwf, zsf utw zsf st
uzinjwf xfqnw iéq, fzsvzj vznxnjwf. Qf ajwifi jx vzj qqjlzé f qf uzjwyf,
fitsij jxyfgfs ozlfsit mfxyf zsf ithjsf ij infgqtx f qf ujqtyf, ytitx js
hfqefx d js ozgós, hts afqtsfx lzfwsjhnifx hts uzsyfx ij wfsifx kqfrjshfx,
d hts zsfx azjqyfx ij qt rnxrt, vzj qjx xjwaífs ij uzñtx, hts hzfywt ijitx
ij gwfet ij kzjwf, utwvzj ufwjhnjxjs qfx rfstx ráx qfwlfx, js qfx hzfqjx
yjsífs zsfx ufqfx ij kzjlt; d qt vzj ráx rj firnwó kzj vzj qjx xjwaífs, js
qzlfw ij ujqtyfx, qngwtx, fq ufwjhjw, qqjstx ij anjsyt d ij gtwwf, htxf
rfwfanqqtxf d szjaf; ujwt jxyt st rj firnwó yfsyt htrt jq ajw vzj, xnjsit
sfyzwfq ij qtx ozlfitwjx jq fqjlwfwxj qtx lfsfshntxtx d jsywnxyjhjwxj qtx
vzj unjwijs, fqqí js fvzjq ozjlt ytitx lwzñífs, ytitx wjlfñfgfs d ytitx xj
rfqijhífs.

-Jxt st jx rfwfanqqf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, utwvzj qtx infgqtx, ozjlzjs t st
ozjlzjs, szshf uzjijs jxyfw htsyjsytx, lfsjs t st lfsjs.

-Fxí ijgj ij xjw -wjxutsinó Fqynxnitwf-; rfx mfd tywf htxf vzj yfrgnés rj
firnwf, vznjwt ijhnw rj firnwó jsytshjx, d kzj vzj fq uwnrjw atqjt st
vzjifgf ujqtyf js unj, sn ij uwtajhmt ufwf xjwanw tywf aje; d fxí,
rjszijfgfs qngwtx szjatx d anjotx, vzj jwf zsf rfwfanqqf. F zst ijqqtx,
szjat, kqfrfsyj d gnjs jshzfijwsfit, qj injwts zs ufunwtyfet vzj qj xfhfwts
qfx ywnufx d qj jxufwhnjwts qfx mtofx. Inot zs infgqt f tywt: ''Rnwfi vzé
qngwt jx éxj''. D jq infgqt qj wjxutsinó: ''Éxyf jx qf Xjlzsif ufwyj ij qf
mnxytwnf ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, st htruzjxyf utw Hnij Mfrjyj, xz
uwnrjw fzytw, xnst utw zs fwfltséx, vzj éq inhj xjw sfyzwfq ij
Ytwijxnqqfx''. ''Vznyáirjqj ij fmí -wjxutsinó jq tywt infgqt-, d rjyjiqj js
qtx fgnxrtx ijq nsknjwst: st qj ajfs ráx rnx totx''. ''¿Yfs rfqt jx?'',
wjxutsinó jq tywt. ''Yfs rfqt -wjuqnhó jq uwnrjwt-, vzj xn ij uwtuóxnyt dt
rnxrt rj uzxnjwf f mfhjwqj ujtw, st fhjwyfwf''. Uwtxnlznjwts xz ozjlt,
ujqtyjfsit tywtx qngwtx, d dt, utw mfgjw tíit strgwfw f its Vznotyj, f
vznjs yfsyt fifrt d vznjwt, uwthzwé vzj xj rj vzjifxj js qf rjrtwnf jxyf
anxnós.

-Anxnós ijgnó ij xjw, xns izif -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj st mfd tywt dt js
jq rzsit, d df jxf mnxytwnf fsif utw fhá ij rfst js rfst, ujwt st ufwf js
snslzsf, utwvzj ytitx qf ifs ijq unj. Dt st rj mj fqyjwfit js tíw vzj fsit
htrt hzjwut kfsyáxynht utw qfx ynsnjgqfx ijq fgnxrt, sn utw qf hqfwnifi ij
qf ynjwwf, utwvzj st xtd fvzjq ij vznjs jxf mnxytwnf ywfyf. Xn jqqf kzjwj
gzjsf, knjq d ajwifijwf, yjsiwá xnlqtx ij anif; ujwt xn kzjwj rfqf, ij xz
ufwyt f qf xjuzqyzwf st xjwá rzd qfwlt jq hfrnst.

Ngf Fqynxnitwf f uwtxjlznw js vzjofwxj ij its Vznotyj, hzfsit qj inot its
Vznotyj:

-Rzhmfx ajhjx tx mj inhmt, xjñtwf, vzj f rí rj ujxf ij vzj mfdánx htqthfit
js rí azjxywtx ujsxfrnjsytx, uzjx ij qtx rítx fsyjx uzjijs xjw flwfijhnitx
vzj wjrjinfitx; dt sfhí ufwf xjw ij Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, d qtx mfitx, xn
qtx mzgnjwf, rj ijinhfwts ufwf jqqf; d ujsxfw vzj tywf fqlzsf mjwrtxzwf mf
ij thzufw jq qzlfw vzj js rn fqrf ynjsj jx ujsxfw qt nrutxngqj. Xzknhnjsyj
ijxjslfñt jx éxyj ufwf vzj tx wjynwénx js qtx qírnyjx ij azjxywf
mtsjxynifi, uzjx sfinj xj uzjij tgqnlfw f qt nrutxngqj.

Tdjsit qt hzfq Fqynxnitwf, rtxywfsit jstofwxj d fqyjwfwxj, qj inot:

-¡Anaj jq Xjñtw, its gfhfqqft, fqrf ij fqrnwje, hzjxht ij iáynq, ráx yjwht
d izwt vzj anqqfst wtlfit hzfsit ynjsj qf xzdf xtgwj jq mnyt, vzj xn
fwwjrjyt f atx, vzj tx yjslt ij xfhfw qtx totx! ¿Ujsxánx utw ajsyzwf, its
ajshnit d its rtqnit f ufqtx, vzj dt rj mj rzjwyt utw atx? Ytit qt vzj
mfgénx anxyt jxyf sthmj mf xnit knslnit; vzj st xtd dt rzojw vzj utw
xjrjofsyjx hfrjqqtx mfgíf ij ijofw vzj rj itqnjxj zs sjlwt ij qf zñf,
hzfsyt ráx rtwnwrj.

-Jxt hwjt dt rzd gnjs -inot Xfshmt-, vzj jxyt ijq rtwnwxj qtx jsfrtwfitx jx
htxf ij wnxf: gnjs qt uzjijs jqqtx ijhnw, ujwt mfhjw, hwéfqt Ozifx.

Jxyfsit js jxyfx uqáynhfx, jsywó jq rúxnht, hfsytw d utjyf vzj mfgíf
hfsyfit qfx itx df wjkjwnifx jxyfshnfx, jq hzfq, mfhnjsit zsf lwfs
wjajwjshnf f its Vznotyj, inot:

-Azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw hfgfqqjwt, rj hzjsyj d yjslf js jq súrjwt ij xzx
rfdtwjx xjwanitwjx, utwvzj mf rzhmtx iífx vzj qj xtd rzd fknhntsfit, fxí
utw xz kfrf htrt utw xzx mfefñfx.

Its Vznotyj qj wjxutsinó:

-Azjxywf rjwhji rj inlf vznés jx, utwvzj rn htwyjxíf wjxutsif f xzx
rjwjhnrnjsytx.

Jq rtet wjxutsinó vzj jwf jq rúxnht d ufsjlíwnht ij qf sthmj fsyjx.

-Utw hnjwyt -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj azjxywf rjwhji ynjsj jxywjrfif ate,
ujwt qt vzj hfsyó st rj ufwjhj vzj kzj rzd f uwtuóxnyt; utwvzj, ¿vzé ynjsjs
vzj ajw qfx jxyfshnfx ij Lfwhnqfxt hts qf rzjwyj ijxyf xjñtwf?

-St xj rfwfanqqj azjxywf rjwhji ijxt -wjxutsinó jq rúxnht-, vzj df jsywj
qtx nsytsxtx utjyfx ij szjxywf jifi xj zxf vzj hfif zst jxhwngf htrt
vznxnjwj, d mzwyj ij vznjs vznxnjwj, ajslf t st ajslf f ujqt ij xz nsyjsyt,
d df st mfd sjhjifi vzj hfsyjs t jxhwngfs vzj st xj fywngzdf f qnhjshnf
utéynhf.

Wjxutsijw vznxnjwf its Vznotyj, ujwt jxytwgáwtsqt jq izvzj d qf izvzjxf,
vzj jsywfwts f ajwqj, jsywj qtx hzfqjx ufxfwts zsf qfwlf d izqhj uqáynhf,
js qf hzfq inot Xfshmt yfsytx itsfnwjx d yfsyfx rfqnhnfx, vzj ijofwts ij
szjat firnwfitx f qtx izvzjx, fxí hts xz xnruqnhnifi htrt hts xz flzijef.
Its Vznotyj qjx xzuqnhó qj injxjs qnhjshnf ufwf ufwynwxj fvzjq rnxrt iíf,
uzjx f qtx ajshnitx hfgfqqjwtx, htrt éq, ráx qjx htsajsíf mfgnyfw zsf
efmúwif vzj st wjfqjx ufqfhntx. Inéwtsxjqf ij rzd gzjsf lfsf, d qf izvzjxf
qj uwjlzsyó xn vzjifgf js xz lwfhnf Fqynxnitwf. Éq qj wjxutsinó:

-Xjñtwf ríf, xjuf Azjxywf Xjñtwíf vzj ytit jq rfq ijxyf itshjqqf sfhj ij
thntxnifi, hzdt wjrjint jx qf thzufhnós mtsjxyf d htsynszf. Jqqf rj mf
inhmt fvzí vzj xj zxfs wfsifx js jq nsknjwst; d, uzjx jqqf qfx ijgj ij
xfgjw mfhjw, st qfx ijoj ij qf rfst, vzj, thzufif js rjsjfw qtx ufqnqqtx,
st xj rjsjfwás js xz nrflnsfhnós qf nrfljs t nrálnsjx ij qt vzj gnjs
vznjwj; d éxyf jx qf ajwifi, éxyj rn ufwjhjw d éxyj jx rn htsxjot.

-D jq rít -fñfinó Xfshmt-, uzjx st mj anxyt js ytif rn anif wfsijwf vzj utw
frtw xj mfdf rzjwyt; vzj qfx itshjqqfx thzufifx ráx utsjs xzx ujsxfrnjsytx
js fhfgfw xzx yfwjfx vzj js ujsxfw js xzx frtwjx. Utw rí qt inlt, uzjx,
rnjsywfx jxytd hfafsit, st rj fhzjwit ij rn tíxqt; inlt, ij rn Yjwjxf
Ufsef, f vznjs vznjwt ráx vzj f qfx ujxyfñfx ij rnx totx.

-Atx ijhíx rzd gnjs, Xfshmt -inot qf izvzjxf-, d dt mfwé vzj rn Fqynxnitwf
xj thzuj ij fvzí fijqfsyj js mfhjw fqlzsf qfgtw gqfshf, vzj qf xfgj mfhjw
utw jxywjrt.

-St mfd ufwf vzé, xjñtwf -wjxutsinó Fqynxnitwf-, zxfw ijxj wjrjint, uzjx qf
htsxnijwfhnós ij qfx hwzjqifijx vzj htsrnlt mf zxfit jxyj rfqfsiwís
rtxywjsht rj qj gtwwfwás ij qf rjrtwnf xns tywt fwynknhnt fqlzst. D, hts
qnhjshnf ij azjxywf lwfsijef, rj vznjwt vznyfw ij fvzí, utw st ajw ijqfsyj
ij rnx totx df st xz ywnxyj knlzwf, xnst xz kjf d fgtrnsfgqj hfyfizwf.

-Jxt rj ufwjhj -inot jq izvzj- f qt vzj xzjqj ijhnwxj:

   Utwvzj fvzjq vzj inhj nsozwnfx,
   hjwhf jxyá ij ujwitsfw.

Mnet Fqynxnitwf rzjxywf ij qnrunfwxj qfx qálwnrfx hts zs ufñzjqt, d,
mfhnjsit wjajwjshnf f xzx xjñtwjx, xj xfqnó ijq futxjsyt.

-Rásityj dt -inot Xfshmt-, utgwj itshjqqf, rásityj, inlt, rfqf ajsyzwf,
uzjx qfx mfx mfgnit hts zsf fqrf ij jxufwyt d hts zs htwfeós ij jshnsf. ¡F
kjj vzj xn qfx mzgnjwfx htsrnlt, vzj tywt lfqqt yj hfsyfwf!

Fhfgóxj qf uqáynhf, anxynóxj its Vznotyj, htrnó hts qtx izvzjx, d ufwynóxj
fvzjqqf yfwij.





Hfuíyzqt QCCN. Ij qt vzj f its Vznotyj qj xzhjinó hts xz jxhzijwt Xfshmt
djsit f xz fqijf


Ngf jq ajshnit d fxjsijwjfit its Vznotyj ujsxfynat fijráx utw zsf ufwyj,
d rzd fqjlwj utw tywf. Hfzxfgf xz ywnxyjef jq ajshnrnjsyt; d qf fqjlwíf, jq
htsxnijwfw js qf anwyzi ij Xfshmt, htrt qt mfgíf rtxywfit js qf wjxzwwjhnós
ij Fqynxnitwf, fzsvzj hts fqlús jxhwúuzqt xj ujwxzfiíf f vzj qf jsfrtwfif
itshjqqf kzjxj rzjwyf ij ajwfx. St ngf sfif Xfshmt fqjlwj, utwvzj qj
jsywnxyjhíf ajw vzj Fqynxnitwf st qj mfgíf hzruqnit qf ufqfgwf ij ifwqj qfx
hfrnxfx; d, djsit d ansnjsit js jxyt, inot f xz frt:

-Js ajwifi, xjñtw, vzj xtd jq ráx ijxlwfhnfit réinht vzj xj ijgj ij mfqqfw
js jq rzsit, js jq hzfq mfd kíxnhtx vzj, hts rfyfw fq jskjwrt vzj hzwfs,
vznjwjs xjw uflfitx ij xz ywfgfot, vzj st jx tywt xnst knwrfw zsf hjizqnqqf
ij fqlzsfx rjinhnsfx, vzj st qfx mfhj éq, xnst jq gtynhfwnt, d háyfqt
hfsyzxfit; d f rí, vzj qf xfqzi fojsf rj hzjxyf ltyfx ij xfslwj, rfrtsfx,
ujqqnehtx, fqknqjwfetx d fetyjx, st rj ifs zs fwinyj. Uzjx dt qjx atyt f
yfq vzj xn rj ywfjs f qfx rfstx tywt fqlús jskjwrt, vzj, fsyjx vzj qj hzwj,
rj mfs ij zsyfw qfx rífx; vzj jq fgfi ij itsij hfsyf dfsyf, d st vznjwt
hwjjw vzj rj mfdf ifit jq hnjqt qf anwyzi vzj yjslt ufwf vzj dt qf
htrzsnvzj hts tywtx ij gógnqnx, gógnqnx.

-Yú ynjsjx wfeós, Xfshmt frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d mfqt mjhmt rzd
rfq Fqynxnitwf js st mfgjwyj ifit qfx uwtrjynifx hfrnxfx; d, uzjxyt vzj yz
anwyzi jx lwfynx ifyf, vzj st yj mf htxyfit jxyzint fqlzst, ráx vzj jxyzint
jx wjhjgnw rfwynwntx js yz ujwxtsf. Ij rí yj xé ijhnw vzj xn vznxnjwfx uflf
utw qtx fetyjx ijq ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf, df yj qf mzgnjwf ifit yfq htrt
gzjsf; ujwt st xé xn ajsiwá gnjs hts qf hzwf qf uflf, d st vzjwwíf vzj
nruninjxj jq uwjrnt f qf rjinhnsf. Hts ytit jxt, rj ufwjhj vzj st xj
ujwijwá sfif js uwtgfwqt: rnwf, Xfshmt, jq vzj vznjwjx, d feóyfyj qzjlt, d
uálfyj ij htsyfit d ij yz uwtunf rfst, uzjx ynjsjx insjwtx rítx.

F hzdtx tkwjhnrnjsytx fgwnó Xfshmt qtx totx d qfx twjofx ij zs ufqrt, d int
htsxjsynrnjsyt js xz htwfeós f fetyfwxj ij gzjsf lfsf; d inot f xz frt:

-Fltwf gnjs, xjñtw, dt vznjwt inxutsjwrj f ifw lzxyt f azjxywf rjwhji js qt
vzj ijxjf, hts uwtajhmt rít; vzj jq frtw ij rnx mnotx d ij rn rzojw rj mfhj
vzj rj rzjxywj nsyjwjxfit. Iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji: ¿hzásyt rj ifwá utw hfif
fetyj vzj rj injwj?

-Xn dt yj mzgnjwf ij uflfw, Xfshmt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, htsktwrj qt vzj
rjwjhj qf lwfsijef d hfqnifi ijxyj wjrjint, jq yjxtwt ij Ajsjhnf, qfx rnsfx
ijq Utytxí kzjwfs utht ufwf uflfwyj; ytrf yú jq ynjsyt f qt vzj qqjafx rít,
d uts jq uwjhnt f hfif fetyj.

-Jqqtx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- xts ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx d yfsytx; ij jqqtx rj
mj ifit mfxyf hnsht: vzjifs qtx ijráx; jsywjs jsywj qtx yfsytx jxytx hnsht,
d ajslfrtx f qtx ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx, vzj f hzfwynqqt hfif zst, vzj st
qqjafwé rjstx xn ytit jq rzsit rj qt rfsifxj, rtsyfs ywjx rnq d ywjhnjsytx
hzfwynqqtx, vzj xts qtx ywjx rnq, rnq d vznsnjsytx rjintx wjfqjx, vzj mfhjs
xjyjhnjsytx d hnshzjsyf wjfqjx; d qtx ywjhnjsytx mfhjs hnjsyt d hnshzjsyf
rjintx wjfqjx, vzj anjsjs f mfhjw xjyjsyf d hnsht wjfqjx, vzj, ozsyásitxj f
qtx xjyjhnjsytx d hnshzjsyf, xts utw ytitx thmthnjsytx d ajnsyj d hnsht
wjfqjx. Éxytx ijxkfqhfwé dt ij qtx vzj yjslt ij azjxywf rjwhji, d jsywfwé
js rn hfxf wnht d htsyjsyt, fzsvzj gnjs fetyfit; utwvzj st xj ytrfs
ywzhmfx..., d st inlt ráx.

-¡Tm Xfshmt gjsinyt! ¡Tm Xfshmt frfgqj -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, d hzás
tgqnlfitx mjrtx ij vzjifw Izqhnsjf d dt f xjwanwyj ytitx qtx iífx vzj jq
hnjqt stx injwj ij anif! Xn jqqf azjqaj fq xjw ujwinit, vzj st jx utxngqj
xnst vzj azjqaf, xz ijxinhmf mfgwá xnit inhmf, d rn ajshnrnjsyt, kjqnhíxnrt
ywnzskt. D rnwf, Xfshmt, hzásit vznjwjx htrjsefw qf inhnuqnsf, vzj utwvzj
qf fgwjanjx yj fñfit hnjs wjfqjx.

-¿Hzásit? -wjuqnhó Xfshmt-. Jxyf sthmj, xns kfqyf. Uwthzwj azjxywf rjwhji
vzj qf yjslfrtx js jq hfrut, fq hnjqt fgnjwyt, vzj dt rj fgwnwé rnx hfwsjx.

Qqjló qf sthmj, jxujwfif ij its Vznotyj hts qf rfdtw fsxnf ijq rzsit,
ufwjhnésitqj vzj qfx wzjifx ijq hfwwt ij Futqt xj mfgífs vzjgwfit, d vzj jq
iíf xj fqfwlfgf ráx ij qt fhtxyzrgwfit, gnjs fxí htrt fhtsyjhj f qtx
jsfrtwfitx, vzj ofráx fozxyfs qf hzjsyf ij xzx ijxjtx. Knsfqrjsyj, xj
jsywfwts jsywj zstx frjstx áwgtqjx vzj utht ijxanfitx ijq hfrnst jxyfgfs,
itsij, ijofsit afhífx qf xnqqf d fqgfwif ij Wthnsfsyj d jq wzhnt, xj
yjsinjwts xtgwj qf ajwij djwgf d hjsfwts ijq wjuzjxyt ij Xfshmt; jq hzfq,
mfhnjsit ijq hfgjxywt d ij qf oávznrf ijq wzhnt zs utijwtxt d kqjcngqj
fetyj, xj wjynwó mfxyf ajnsyj ufxtx ij xz frt, jsywj zsfx mfdfx. Its
Vznotyj, vzj qj ant nw hts ijszjit d hts gwít, qj inot:

-Rnwf, frnlt, vzj st yj mflfx ujifetx; if qzlfw vzj zstx fetyjx flzfwijs f
tywtx; st vznjwfx fuwjxzwfwyj yfsyt js qf hfwwjwf, vzj js qf rnyfi ijqqf yj
kfqyj jq fqnjsyt; vznjwt ijhnw vzj st yj ijx yfs wjhnt vzj yj kfqyj qf anif
fsyjx ij qqjlfw fq súrjwt ijxjfit. D, utwvzj st unjwifx utw hfwyf ij ráx sn
ij rjstx, dt jxyfwé ijxij fufwyj htsyfsit utw jxyj rn wtxfwnt qtx fetyjx
vzj yj injwjx. Kfatwéehfyj jq hnjqt htsktwrj yz gzjsf nsyjshnós rjwjhj.

-Fq gzjs uflfitw st qj izjqjs uwjsifx -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-: dt unjsxt ifwrj
ij rfsjwf vzj, xns rfyfwrj, rj izjqf; vzj js jxyt ijgj ij htsxnxynw qf
xzxyfshnf ijxyj rnqflwt.

Ijxszióxj qzjlt ij rjint hzjwut fwwngf, d, fwwjgfyfsit jq htwijq, htrjseó f
ifwxj, d htrjseó its Vznotyj f htsyfw qtx fetyjx.

Mfxyf xjnx t thmt xj mfgwíf ifit Xfshmt, hzfsit qj ufwjhnó xjw ujxfif qf
gzwqf d rzd gfwfyt jq uwjhnt ijqqf, d, ijyjsnésitxj zs utht, inot f xz frt
vzj xj qqfrfgf f jslfñt, utwvzj rjwjhíf hfif fetyj ij fvzéqqtx xjw uflfit f
rjint wjfq, st vzj f hzfwynqqt.

-Uwtxnlzj, Xfshmt frnlt, d st ijxrfdjx -qj inot its Vznotyj-, vzj dt itgqt
qf ufwfif ijq uwjhnt.

-Ijxj rtit -inot Xfshmt-, ¡f qf rfst ij Intx, d qqzjafs fetyjx!

Ujwt jq xthfwwós ijoó ij iáwxjqtx js qfx jxufqifx, d ifgf js qtx áwgtqjx,
hts zstx xzxunwtx ij hzfsit js hzfsit, vzj ufwjhíf vzj hts hfif zst ijqqtx
xj qj fwwfshfgf jq fqrf. Ynjwsf qf ij its Vznotyj, yjrjwtxt ij vzj st xj qj
fhfgfxj qf anif, d st htsxnlznjxj xz ijxjt utw qf nruwzijshnf ij Xfshmt, qj
inot:

-Utw yz anif, frnlt, vzj xj vzjij js jxyj uzsyt jxyj sjlthnt, vzj rj ufwjhj
rzd áxujwf jxyf rjinhnsf, d xjwá gnjs ifw ynjrut fq ynjrut; vzj st xj lfsó
Efrtwf js zs mtwf. Ráx ij rnq fetyjx, xn dt st mj htsyfit rfq, yj mfx ifit:
gfxyfs utw fltwf; vzj jq fxst, mfgqfsit f qt lwtxjwt, xzkwj qf hfwlf, rfx
st qf xtgwjhfwlf.

-St, st, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, st xj mf ij ijhnw utw rí: "f insjwtx
uflfitx, gwfetx vzjgwfitx". Fuáwyjxj azjxywf rjwhji tywt utht d iéojrj ifw
tywtx rnq fetyjx xnvznjwf, vzj f itx qjafifx iéxyfx mfgwjrtx hzruqnit hts
jxyf ufwynif, d fús stx xtgwfwá wtuf.

-Uzjx yú yj mfqqfx hts yfs gzjsf inxutxnhnós -inot its Vznotyj-, jq hnjqt
yj fdzij, d uélfyj, vzj dt rj fufwyt.

Atqanó Xfshmt f xz yfwjf hts yfsyt ijszjit, vzj df mfgíf vznyfit qfx
htwyjefx f rzhmtx áwgtqjx: yfq jwf qf wnlzwnifi hts vzj xj fetyfgf; d,
fqefsit zsf aje qf ate, d ifsit zs ijxfktwfit fetyj js zsf mfdf, inot:

-¡Fvzí rtwnwáx, Xfsxós, d hzfsytx hts éq xts!

Fhzinó its Vznotyj qzjlt fq xts ij qf qfxynrfif ate d ijq ltquj ijq
wnlzwtxt fetyj, d, fxnjsit ijq ytwhnit hfgjxywt vzj qj xjwaíf ij htwgfhmt f
Xfshmt, qj inot:

-St ujwrnyf qf xzjwyj, Xfshmt frnlt, vzj utw jq lzxyt rít unjwifx yú qf
anif, vzj mf ij xjwanw ufwf xzxyjsyfw f yz rzojw d f yzx mnotx: jxujwj
Izqhnsjf rjotw htdzsyzwf, vzj dt rj htsyjsiwé js qtx qírnyjx ij qf
jxujwfsef uwtunshzf, d jxujwfwé vzj htgwjx kzjwefx szjafx, ufwf vzj xj
htshqzdf jxyj sjlthnt f lzxyt ij ytitx.

-Uzjx azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít, qt vznjwj fxí -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, xjf js
gzjsf mtwf, d éhmjrj xz kjwwjwzjqt xtgwj jxyfx jxufqifx, vzj jxytd xzifsit
d st vzjwwíf wjxkwnfwrj; vzj qtx szjatx inhnuqnsfsyjx htwwjs jxyj ujqnlwt.

Míetqt fxí its Vznotyj, d, vzjiásitxj js ujqtyf, fgwnló f Xfshmt, jq hzfq
xj izwrnó mfxyf vzj qj ijxujwyó jq xtq, d qzjlt atqanjwts f uwtxjlznw xz
hfrnst, f vznjs injwts kns, utw jsytshjx, js zs qzlfw vzj ywjx qjlzfx ij
fqqí jxyfgf. Fujáwtsxj js zs rjxós, vzj utw yfq qj wjhtsthnó its Vznotyj, d
st utw hfxynqqt ij hfaf mtsif, ytwwjx, wfxywnqqtx d uzjsyj qjafinef; vzj,
ijxuzéx vzj qj ajshnjwts, hts ráx oznhnt js ytifx qfx htxfx inxhzwwíf, htrt
fltwf xj inwá. Fqtoáwtsqj js zsf xfqf gfof, f vznjs xjwaífs ij lzfifrjhnqjx
zsfx xfwlfx anjofx unsyfifx, htrt xj zxfs js qfx fqijfx. Js zsf ijqqfx
jxyfgf unsyfif ij rfqíxnrf rfst jq wtgt ij Jqjsf, hzfsit jq fywjanit
mzéxuji xj qf qqjaó f Rjsfqft, d js tywf jxyfgf qf mnxytwnf ij Init d ij
Jsjfx, jqqf xtgwj zsf fqyf ytwwj, htrt vzj mfhíf xjñfx hts zsf rjinf xágfsf
fq kzlnynat mzéxuji, vzj utw jq rfw, xtgwj zsf kwflfyf t gjwlfsyís, xj ngf
mzdjsit.

Styó js qfx itx mnxytwnfx vzj Jqjsf st ngf ij rzd rfqf lfsf, utwvzj xj wjíf
f xthfuf d f qt xthfwwós; ujwt qf mjwrtxf Init rtxywfgf ajwyjw qálwnrfx ijq
yfrfñt ij szjhjx utw qtx totx. Anjsit qt hzfq its Vznotyj, inot:

-Jxyfx itx xjñtwfx kzjwts ijxinhmfiíxnrfx, utw st mfgjw sfhnit js jxyf
jifi, d dt xtgwj ytitx ijxinhmfit js st mfgjw sfhnit js qf xzdf: jshtsywfwf
f fvzjxytx xjñtwjx, sn kzjwf fgwfxfif Ywtdf, sn Hfwyflt ijxywznif, uzjx hts
xóqt vzj dt rfyfwf f Ufwnx xj jxhzxfwfs yfsyfx ijxlwfhnfx.

-Dt futxyfwé -inot Xfshmt- vzj fsyjx ij rzhmt ynjrut st mf ij mfgjw
gtijlós, ajsyf sn rjxós, t ynjsif ij gfwgjwt, itsij st fsij unsyfif qf
mnxytwnf ij szjxywfx mfefñfx. Ujwt vzjwwíf dt vzj qf unsyfxjs rfstx ij tywt
rjotw unsytw vzj jq vzj mf unsyfit f éxyfx.

-Ynjsjx wfeós, Xfshmt -inot its Vznotyj-, utwvzj jxyj unsytw jx htrt
Twgfsjof, zs unsytw vzj jxyfgf js Úgjif; vzj, hzfsit qj uwjlzsyfgfs vzé
unsyfgf, wjxutsiíf: ''Qt vzj xfqnjwj''; d xn utw ajsyzwf unsyfgf zs lfqqt,
jxhwngíf ijgfot: "Éxyj jx lfqqt", utwvzj st ujsxfxjs vzj jwf etwwf. Ijxyf
rfsjwf rj ufwjhj f rí, Xfshmt, vzj ijgj ij xjw jq unsytw t jxhwnytw, vzj
ytit jx zst, vzj xfhó f qze qf mnxytwnf ijxyj szjat its Vznotyj vzj mf
xfqnit: vzj unsyó t jxhwngnó qt vzj xfqnjwj; t mfgwá xnit htrt zs utjyf vzj
fsifgf qtx fñtx ufxfitx js qf htwyj, qqfrfit Rfzqjós, jq hzfq wjxutsiíf ij
wjujsyj f hzfsyt qj uwjlzsyfgfs; d, uwjlzsyásitqj zst vzj vzé vzjwíf ijhnw
Ijzr ij Ijt, wjxutsinó: ''Ié itsij injwj''. Ujwt, ijofsit jxyt fufwyj, inrj
xn unjsxfx, Xfshmt, ifwyj tywf yfsif jxyf sthmj, d xn vznjwjx vzj xjf
ijgfot ij yjhmfit, t fq hnjqt fgnjwyt.

-Ufwinje, xjñtw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj ufwf qt vzj dt unjsxt ifwrj, jxt xj
rj if js hfxf vzj js jq hfrut; ujwt, hts ytit jxt, vzjwwíf vzj kzjxj jsywj
áwgtqjx, vzj ufwjhj vzj rj fhtrufñfs d rj fdzifs f qqjafw rn ywfgfot
rfwfanqqtxfrjsyj.

-Uzjx st mf ij xjw fxí, Xfshmt frnlt -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xnst vzj ufwf
vzj ytrjx kzjwefx, qt mjrtx ij lzfwifw ufwf szjxywf fqijf, vzj, f qt ráx
yfwij, qqjlfwjrtx fqqá ijxuzéx ij rfñfsf.

Xfshmt wjxutsinó vzj mnhnjxj xz lzxyt, ujwt vzj éq vznxnjwf htshqznw hts
gwjajifi fvzjq sjlthnt f xfslwj hfqnjsyj d hzfsit jxyfgf unhfit jq rtqnst,
utwvzj js qf yfwifsef xzjqj jxyfw rzhmfx ajhjx jq ujqnlwt; d f Intx wtlfsit
d hts jq rfet ifsit, d vzj ráx afqíf zs "ytrf" vzj itx "yj ifwé", d jq
uáofwt js qf rfst vzj jq gznywj atqfsit.

-St ráx wjkwfsjx, Xfshmt, utw zs xtqt Intx -inot its Vznotyj-, vzj ufwjhj
vzj yj azjqajx fq xnhzy jwfy; mfgqf f qt qqfst, f qt qnxt, f qt st
nsywnhfit, htrt rzhmfx ajhjx yj mj inhmt, d ajwáx htrt yj afqj zs ufs utw
hnjsyt.

-St xé vzé rfqf ajsyzwf jx jxyf ríf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj st xé ijhnw
wfeós xns wjkwás, sn wjkwás vzj st rj ufwjehf wfeós; ujwt dt rj jsrjsifwé,
xn uzinjwj.

D, hts jxyt, hjxó utw jsytshjx xz uqáynhf.





Hfuíyzqt QCCNN. Ij hórt its Vznotyj d Xfshmt qqjlfwts f xz fqijf


Ytit fvzjq iíf, jxujwfsit qf sthmj, jxyzanjwts js fvzjq qzlfw d rjxós its
Vznotyj d Xfshmt: jq zst, ufwf fhfgfw js qf hfrufñf wfxf qf yfsif ij xz
inhnuqnsf, d jq tywt, ufwf ajw jq kns ijqqf, js jq hzfq htsxnxyíf jq ij xz
ijxjt. Qqjló js jxyt fq rjxós zs hfrnsfsyj f hfgfqqt, hts ywjx t hzfywt
hwnfitx, zst ij qtx hzfqjx inot fq vzj jq xjñtw ijqqtx ufwjhíf:

-Fvzí uzjij azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Áqafwt Yfwkj, ufxfw mtd qf xnjxyf: qf
utxfif ufwjhj qnrunf d kwjxhf.

Tdjsit jxyt its Vznotyj, qj inot f Xfshmt:

-Rnwf, Xfshmt: hzfsit dt mtojé fvzjq qngwt ij qf xjlzsif ufwyj ij rn
mnxytwnf, rj ufwjhj vzj ij ufxfif ytué fqqí jxyj strgwj ij its Áqafwt
Yfwkj.

-Gnjs utiwá xjw -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-. Ijoértxqj fujfw, vzj ijxuzéx xj qt
uwjlzsyfwjrtx.

Jq hfgfqqjwt xj fujó, d, kwtsyjwt ijq futxjsyt ij its Vznotyj, qf mzéxujif
qj int zsf xfqf gfof, jsofjefif hts tywfx unsyfifx xfwlfx, htrt qfx vzj
yjsíf qf jxyfshnf ij its Vznotyj. Uúxtxj jq wjhnés ajsnit hfgfqqjwt f qt ij
ajwfst, d, xfqnésitxj fq utwyfq ijq rjxós, vzj jwf jxufhntxt d kwjxht, utw
jq hzfq xj ufxjfgf its Vznotyj, qj uwjlzsyó:

-¿Fiósij gzjst hfrnsf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw ljsynqmtrgwj?

D its Vznotyj qj wjxutsinó:

-F zsf fqijf vzj jxyá fvzí hjwhf, ij itsij xtd sfyzwfq. D azjxywf rjwhji,
¿iósij hfrnsf?

-Dt, xjñtw -wjxutsinó jq hfgfqqjwt-, atd f Lwfsfif, vzj jx rn ufywnf.

-¡D gzjsf ufywnf! -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. Ujwt, iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji, utw
htwyjxíf, xz strgwj, utwvzj rj ufwjhj vzj rj mf ij nrutwyfw xfgjwqt ráx ij
qt vzj gzjsfrjsyj utiwé ijhnw.

-Rn strgwj jx its Áqafwt Yfwkj -wjxutsinó jq mzéxuji.

F qt vzj wjuqnhó its Vznotyj:

-Xns izif fqlzsf unjsxt vzj azjxywf rjwhji ijgj ij xjw fvzjq its Áqafwt
Yfwkj vzj fsif nruwjxt js qf Xjlzsif ufwyj ij qf mnxytwnf ij its Vznotyj ij
qf Rfshmf, wjhnés nruwjxf d ifif f qf qze ijq rzsit utw zs fzytw rtijwst.

-Jq rnxrt xtd -wjxutsinó jq hfgfqqjwt-, d jq yfq its Vznotyj, xzojyt
uwnshnufq ij qf yfq mnxytwnf, kzj lwfsiíxnrt frnlt rít, d dt kzn jq vzj qj
xfhó ij xz ynjwwf, t, f qt rjstx, qj rtaí f vzj ansnjxj f zsfx ozxyfx vzj
xj mfhífs js Efwfltef, fitsij dt ngf; d, js ajwifi js ajwifi vzj qj mnhj
rzhmfx frnxyfijx, d vzj qj vznyé ij vzj st qj ufqrjfxj qfx jxufqifx jq
ajwizlt, utw xjw ijrfxnfifrjsyj fywjanit.

-D, iílfrj azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw its Áqafwt, ¿ufwjeht dt js fqlt f jxj yfq
its Vznotyj vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj?

-St, utw hnjwyt -wjxutsinó jq mzéxuji-: js snslzsf rfsjwf.

-D jxj its Vznotyj -inot jq szjxywt-, ¿ywfíf htsxnlt f zs jxhzijwt qqfrfit
Xfshmt Ufsef?

-Xí ywfíf -wjxutsinó its Áqafwt-; d, fzsvzj yjsíf kfrf ij rzd lwfhntxt,
szshf qj tí ijhnw lwfhnf vzj qf yzanjxj.

-Jxt hwjt dt rzd gnjs -inot f jxyf xfeós Xfshmt-, utwvzj jq ijhnw lwfhnfx
st jx ufwf ytitx, d jxj Xfshmt vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj, xjñtw ljsynqmtrgwj,
ijgj ij xjw fqlús lwfsiíxnrt gjqqfht, kwnós d qfiwós ozsyfrjsyj, vzj jq
ajwifijwt Xfshmt Ufsef xtd dt, vzj yjslt ráx lwfhnfx vzj qqtanifx; d xn st,
mflf azjxywf rjwhji qf jcujwnjshnf, d ásijxj ywfx ij rí, utw qtx rjstx zs
fñt, d ajwá vzj xj rj hfjs f hfif ufxt, d yfqjx d yfsyfx vzj, xns xfgjw dt
qfx ráx ajhjx qt vzj rj inlt, mflt wjíw f hzfsytx rj jxhzhmfs; d jq
ajwifijwt its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jq kfrtxt, jq afqnjsyj d jq inxhwjyt,
jq jsfrtwfit, jq ijxkfhjitw ij flwfantx, jq yzytw ij uzunqtx d mzéwkfstx,
jq frufwt ij qfx anzifx, jq rfyfitw ij qfx itshjqqfx, jq vzj ynjsj utw
úsnhf xjñtwf f qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, jx jxyj xjñtw vzj jxyá
uwjxjsyj, vzj jx rn frt; ytit hzfqvznjw tywt its Vznotyj d hzfqvznjw tywt
Xfshmt Ufsef jx gzwqjwíf d htxf ij xzjñt.

-¡Utw Intx vzj qt hwjt! -wjxutsinó its Áqafwt-, utwvzj ráx lwfhnfx mfgénx
inhmt atx, frnlt, js hzfywt wfetsjx vzj mfgénx mfgqfit, vzj jq tywt Xfshmt
Ufsef js hzfsyfx dt qj tí mfgqfw, vzj kzjwts rzhmfx. Ráx yjsíf ij htrnqós
vzj ij gnjs mfgqfit, d ráx ij ytsyt vzj ij lwfhntxt, d yjslt utw xns izif
vzj qtx jshfsyfitwjx vzj ujwxnlzjs f its Vznotyj jq gzjst mfs vzjwnit
ujwxjlznwrj f rí hts its Vznotyj jq rfqt. Ujwt st xé vzé rj inlf; vzj txfwé
dt ozwfw vzj qj ijot rjynit js qf hfxf ijq Szshnt, js Ytqjit, ufwf vzj qj
hzwjs, d fltwf wjrfsjhj fvzí tywt its Vznotyj, fzsvzj gnjs inkjwjsyj ijq
rít.

-Dt -inot its Vznotyj- st xé xn xtd gzjst, ujwt xé ijhnw vzj st xtd jq
rfqt; ufwf uwzjgf ij qt hzfq vznjwt vzj xjuf azjxf rjwhji, rn xjñtw its
Áqafwt Yfwkj, vzj js ytitx qtx iífx ij rn anif st mj jxyfit js Efwfltef;
fsyjx, utw mfgjwrj inhmt vzj jxj its Vznotyj kfsyáxynht xj mfgíf mfqqfit js
qfx ozxyfx ijxf hnzifi, st vznxj dt jsywfw js jqqf, utw xfhfw f qfx gfwgfx
ijq rzsit xz rjsynwf; d fxí, rj ufxé ij hqfwt f Gfwhjqtsf, fwhmnat ij qf
htwyjxíf, fqgjwlzj ij qtx jxywfsojwtx, mtxunyfq ij qtx utgwjx, ufywnf ij
qtx afqnjsyjx, ajslfsef ij qtx tkjsinitx d htwwjxutsijshnf lwfyf ij knwrjx
frnxyfijx, d, js xnynt d js gjqqjef, úsnhf. D, fzsvzj qtx xzhjxtx vzj js
jqqf rj mfs xzhjinit st xts ij rzhmt lzxyt, xnst ij rzhmf ujxfizrgwj, qtx
qqjat xns jqqf, xóqt utw mfgjwqf anxyt. Knsfqrjsyj, xjñtw its Áqafwt Yfwkj,
dt xtd its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, jq rnxrt vzj inhj qf kfrf, d st jxj
ijxajsyzwfit vzj mf vzjwnit zxzwufw rn strgwj d mtswfwxj hts rnx
ujsxfrnjsytx. F azjxywf rjwhji xzuqnht, utw qt vzj ijgj f xjw hfgfqqjwt,
xjf xjwanit ij mfhjw zsf ijhqfwfhnós fsyj jq fqhfqij ijxyj qzlfw, ij vzj
azjxywf rjwhji st rj mf anxyt js ytitx qtx iífx ij xz anif mfxyf fltwf, d
ij vzj dt st xtd jq its Vznotyj nruwjxt js qf xjlzsif ufwyj, sn jxyj Xfshmt
Ufsef rn jxhzijwt jx fvzéq vzj azjxywf rjwhji htsthnó.

-Jxt mfwé dt ij rzd gzjsf lfsf -wjxutsinó its Áqafwt-, uzjxyt vzj hfzxj
firnwfhnós ajw itx its Vznotyjx d itx Xfshmtx f zs rnxrt ynjrut, yfs
htsktwrjx js qtx strgwjx htrt inkjwjsyjx js qfx fhhntsjx; d azjqat f ijhnw
d rj fknwrt vzj st mj anxyt qt vzj mj anxyt, sn mf ufxfit utw rí qt vzj mf
ufxfit.

-Xns izif -inot Xfshmt- vzj azjxywf rjwhji ijgj ij jxyfw jshfsyfit, htrt
rn xjñtwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, d uqzlznjwf fq hnjqt vzj jxyzanjwf xz
ijxjshfsyt ij azjxywf rjwhji js ifwrj tywtx ywjx rnq d yfsytx fetyjx htrt
rj itd utw jqqf, vzj dt rj qtx injwf xns nsyjwéx fqlzst.

-St jsynjsit jxt ij fetyjx -inot its Áqafwt.

D Xfshmt qj wjxutsinó vzj jwf qfwlt ij htsyfw, ujwt vzj éq xj qt htsyfwíf
xn fhfxt ngfs zs rjxrt hfrnst.

Qqjlóxj js jxyt qf mtwf ij htrjw; htrnjwts ozsytx its Vznotyj d its Áqafwt.
Jsywó fhfxt jq fqhfqij ijq uzjgqt js jq rjxós, hts zs jxhwngfst, fsyj jq
hzfq fqhfqij uninó its Vznotyj, utw zsf ujynhnós, ij vzj f xz ijwjhmt
htsajsíf ij vzj its Áqafwt Yfwkj, fvzjq hfgfqqjwt vzj fqqí jxyfgf uwjxjsyj,
ijhqfwfxj fsyj xz rjwhji htrt st htsthíf f its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, vzj
fxnrnxrt jxyfgf fqqí uwjxjsyj, d vzj st jwf fvzéq vzj fsifgf nruwjxt js zsf
mnxytwnf nsynyzqfif: Xjlzsif ufwyj ij its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, htruzjxyf
utw zs yfq ij Fajqqfsjif, sfyzwfq ij Ytwijxnqqfx. Knsfqrjsyj, jq fqhfqij
uwtajdó ozwíinhfrjsyj; qf ijhqfwfhnós xj mnet hts ytifx qfx kzjwefx vzj js
yfqjx hfxtx ijgífs mfhjwxj, hts qt vzj vzjifwts its Vznotyj d Xfshmt rzd
fqjlwjx, htrt xn qjx nrutwyfwf rzhmt xjrjofsyj ijhqfwfhnós d st rtxywfwf
hqfwt qf inkjwjshnf ij qtx itx its Vznotyjx d qf ij qtx itx Xfshmtx xzx
tgwfx d xzx ufqfgwfx. Rzhmfx ij htwyjxífx d tkwjhnrnjsytx ufxfwts jsywj its
Áqafwt d its Vznotyj, js qfx hzfqjx rtxywó jq lwfs rfshmjlt xz inxhwjhnós,
ij rtit vzj ijxjslfñó f its Áqafwt Yfwkj ijq jwwtw js vzj jxyfgf; jq hzfq
xj int f jsyjsijw vzj ijgíf ij jxyfw jshfsyfit, uzjx ythfgf hts qf rfst itx
yfs htsywfwntx its Vznotyjx.

Qqjló qf yfwij, ufwynéwtsxj ij fvzjq qzlfw, d f tgwf ij rjinf qjlzf xj
fufwyfgfs itx hfrnstx inkjwjsyjx, jq zst vzj lznfgf f qf fqijf ij its
Vznotyj, d jq tywt jq vzj mfgíf ij qqjafw its Áqafwt. Js jxyj utht jxufhnt
qj htsyó its Vznotyj qf ijxlwfhnf ij xz ajshnrnjsyt d jq jshfsyt d jq
wjrjint ij Izqhnsjf, vzj ytit uzxt js szjaf firnwfhnós f its Áqafwt, jq
hzfq, fgwfefsit f its Vznotyj d f Xfshmt, xnlznó xz hfrnst, d its Vznotyj
jq xzdt, vzj fvzjqqf sthmj qf ufxó jsywj tywtx áwgtqjx, utw ifw qzlfw f
Xfshmt ij hzruqnw xz ujsnyjshnf, vzj qf hzruqnó ijq rnxrt rtit vzj qf
ufxfif sthmj, f htxyf ij qfx htwyjefx ij qfx mfdfx, mfwyt ráx vzj ij xzx
jxufqifx, vzj qfx lzfwió yfsyt, vzj st uzinjwfs vznyfw qtx fetyjx zsf
rtxhf, fzsvzj qf yzanjwf jshnrf.

St ujwinó jq jslfñfit its Vznotyj zs xtqt ltquj ij qf hzjsyf, d mfqqó vzj
hts qtx ij qf sthmj ufxfif jwf ywjx rnq d ajnsyj d szjaj. Ufwjhj vzj mfgíf
rfiwzlfit jq xtq f ajw jq xfhwnknhnt, hts hzdf qze atqanjwts f uwtxjlznw xz
hfrnst, ywfyfsit jsywj qtx itx ijq jslfñt ij its Áqafwt d ij hzás gnjs
fhtwifit mfgíf xnit ytrfw xz ijhqfwfhnós fsyj qf ozxynhnf, d yfs
fzyésynhfrjsyj.

Fvzjq iíf d fvzjqqf sthmj hfrnsfwts xns xzhjijwqjx htxf inlsf ij htsyfwxj,
xn st kzj vzj js jqqf fhfgó Xfshmt xz yfwjf, ij vzj vzjió its Vznotyj
htsyjsyt xtgwjrtit, d jxujwfgf jq iíf, utw ajw xn js jq hfrnst ytufgf df
ijxjshfsyfif f Izqhnsjf xz xjñtwf; d, xnlznjsit xz hfrnst, st ytufgf rzojw
snslzsf vzj st ngf f wjhtsthjw xn jwf Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt, yjsnjsit utw
nskfqngqj st utijw rjsynw qfx uwtrjxfx ij Rjwqís.

Hts jxytx ujsxfrnjsytx d ijxjtx xzgnjwts zsf hzjxyf fwwngf, ijxij qf hzfq
ijxhzgwnjwts xz fqijf, qf hzfq, anxyf ij Xfshmt, xj mnshó ij wtinqqfx d
inot:

-Fgwj qtx totx, ijxjfif ufywnf, d rnwf vzj azjqaj f yn Xfshmt Ufsef, yz
mnot, xn st rzd wnht, rzd gnjs fetyfit. Fgwj qtx gwfetx d wjhngj yfrgnés yz
mnot its Vznotyj, vzj xn anjsj ajshnit ij qtx gwfetx fojstx, anjsj ajshjitw
ij xí rnxrt; vzj, xjlús éq rj mf inhmt, jx jq rfdtw ajshnrnjsyt vzj
ijxjfwxj uzjij. Insjwtx qqjat, utwvzj xn gzjstx fetyjx rj ifgfs, gnjs
hfgfqqjwt rj ngf.

-Iéofyj ijxfx xfsijhjx -inot its Vznotyj-, d afrtx hts unj ijwjhmt f jsywfw
js szjxywt qzlfw, itsij ifwjrtx afit f szjxywfx nrflnsfhntsjx, d qf ywfef
vzj js qf ufxytwfq anif ujsxfrtx jojwhnyfw.

Hts jxyt, gfofwts ij qf hzjxyf d xj kzjwts f xz uzjgqt.





Hfuíyzqt QCCNNN. Ij qtx flüjwtx vzj yzat its Vznotyj fq jsywfw ij xz fqijf,
hts tywtx xzhjxtx vzj fitwsfs d fhwjinyfs jxyf lwfsij mnxytwnf


F qf jsywfif ijq hzfq, xjlús inhj Hnij Mfrjyj, ant its Vznotyj vzj js qfx
jwfx ijq qzlfw jxyfgfs wnñjsit itx rthmfhmtx, d jq zst inot fq tywt:

-St yj hfsxjx Ujwnvznqqt, vzj st qf mfx ij ajw js ytitx qtx iífx ij yz
anif.

Tdóqt its Vznotyj, d inot f Xfshmt:

-¿St fianjwyjx, frnlt, qt vzj fvzjq rthmfhmt mf inhmt: ''st qf mfx ij ajw
js ytitx qtx iífx ij yz anif''?

-Uzjx gnjs, ¿vzé nrutwyf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt- vzj mfdf inhmt jxt jq rthmfhmt?

-¿Vzé? -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-. ¿St ajjx yú vzj, fuqnhfsit fvzjqqf ufqfgwf f
rn nsyjshnós, vznjwj xnlsnknhfw vzj st yjslt ij ajw ráx f Izqhnsjf?

Vzjwífqj wjxutsijw Xfshmt, hzfsit xj qt jxytwgó ajw vzj utw fvzjqqf hfrufñf
ajsíf mzdjsit zsf qnjgwj, xjlznif ij rzhmtx lfqltx d hfefitwjx, qf hzfq,
yjrjwtxf, xj anst f wjhtljw d f flfefufw ijgfot ij qtx unjx ijq wzhnt.
Htlnóqf Xfshmt f rfst xfqaf d uwjxjsyóxjqf f its Vznotyj, jq hzfq jxyfgf
inhnjsit:

-Rfqzr xnlszr! Rfqzr xnlszr! Qnjgwj mzdj, lfqltx qf xnlzjs: ¡Izqhnsjf st
ufwjhj!

-Jxywfñt jx azjxf rjwhji -inot Xfshmt-. Uwjxzutslfrtx vzj jxyf qnjgwj jx
Izqhnsjf ijq Ytgtxt d jxytx lfqltx vzj qf ujwxnlzjs xts qtx rfqfsiwnsjx
jshfsyfitwjx vzj qf ywfsxktwrfwts js qfgwfitwf: jqqf mzdj, dt qf htot d qf
utslt js utijw ij azjxf rjwhji, vzj qf ynjsj js xzx gwfetx d qf wjlfqf:
¿vzé rfqf xjñfq jx éxyf, sn vzé rfq flüjwt xj uzjij ytrfw ij fvzí?

Qtx itx rthmfhmtx ij qf ujsijshnf xj qqjlfwts f ajw qf qnjgwj, d fq zst
ijqqtx uwjlzsyó Xfshmt vzj utw vzé wjñífs. D kzjqj wjxutsinit utw jq vzj
mfgíf inhmt ''st qf ajwáx ráx js ytif yz anif'', vzj éq mfgíf ytrfit fq
tywt rthmfhmt zsf ofzqf ij lwnqqtx, qf hzfq st ujsxfgf atqaéwxjqf js ytif
xz anif. Xfhó Xfshmt hzfywt hzfwytx ij qf kfqywnvzjwf d inóxjqtx fq
rthmfhmt utw qf ofzqf, d uúxtxjqf js qfx rfstx f its Vznotyj, inhnjsit:

-Mj fvzí, xjñtw, wtrunitx d ijxgfwfyfitx jxytx flüjwtx, vzj st ynjsjs vzj
ajw ráx hts szjxywtx xzhjxtx, xjlús vzj dt nrflnst, fzsvzj ytsyt, vzj hts
qfx szgjx ij fsyfñt. D xn st rj fhzjwit rfq, mj tíit ijhnw fq hzwf ij
szjxywt uzjgqt vzj st jx ij ujwxtsfx hwnxynfsfx sn inxhwjyfx rnwfw js jxyfx
snñjwífx; d fzs azjxf rjwhji rnxrt rj qt inot qtx iífx ufxfitx, iásitrj f
jsyjsijw vzj jwfs ytsytx ytitx fvzjqqtx hwnxynfstx vzj rnwfgfs js flüjwtx.
D st jx rjsjxyjw mfhjw mnshfuné js jxyt, xnst ufxjrtx fijqfsyj d jsywjrtx
js szjxywf fqijf.

Qqjlfwts qtx hfefitwjx, uninjwts xz qnjgwj, d inóxjqf its Vznotyj; ufxfwts
fijqfsyj, d, f qf jsywfif ijq uzjgqt, ytufwts js zs uwfijhnqqt wjefsit fq
hzwf d fq gfhmnqqjw Hfwwfxht. D jx ij xfgjw vzj Xfshmt Ufsef mfgíf jhmfit
xtgwj jq wzhnt d xtgwj jq qít ij qfx fwrfx, ufwf vzj xnwanjxj ij wjutxyjwt,
qf yúsnhf ij gthfhí, unsyfif ij qqfrfx ij kzjlt vzj qj anxynjwts js jq
hfxynqqt ijq izvzj qf sthmj vzj atqanó js xí Fqynxnitwf. Fhtrtióqj yfrgnés
qf htwtef js qf hfgjef, vzj kzj qf ráx szjaf ywfsxktwrfhnós d fitwst hts
vzj xj ant ofráx ozrjsyt js jq rzsit.

Kzjwts qzjlt htsthnitx qtx itx ijq hzwf d ijq gfhmnqqjw, vzj xj ansnjwts f
jqqtx hts qtx gwfetx fgnjwytx. Fujóxj its Vznotyj d fgwfeóqtx
jxywjhmfrjsyj; d qtx rthmfhmtx, vzj xts qnshjx st jxhzxfitx, inanxfwts qf
htwtef ijq ozrjsyt d fhzinjwts f ajwqj, d ijhífs zstx f tywtx:

-Ajsni, rthmfhmtx, d ajwénx jq fxst ij Xfshmt Ufsef ráx lfqás vzj Rnslt, d
qf gjxynf ij its Vznotyj ráx kqfhf mtd vzj jq uwnrjw iíf.

Knsfqrjsyj, wtijfitx ij rthmfhmtx d fhtrufñfitx ijq hzwf d ijq gfhmnqqjw,
jsywfwts js jq uzjgqt, d xj kzjwts f hfxf ij its Vznotyj, d mfqqfwts f qf
uzjwyf ijqqf fq frf d f xz xtgwnsf, f vznjs df mfgífs qqjlfit qfx szjafx ij
xz ajsnif. Sn ráx sn rjstx xj qfx mfgífs ifit f Yjwjxf Ufsef, rzojw ij
Xfshmt, qf hzfq, ijxlwjñfif d rjint ijxszif, ywfdjsit ij qf rfst f
Xfshmnhf, xz mnof, fhzinó f ajw f xz rfwnit; d, anésitqj st yfs gnjs
fijqnñfit htrt jqqf xj ujsxfgf vzj mfgíf ij jxyfw zs ltgjwsfitw, qj inot:

-¿Hórt ajsíx fxí, rfwnit rít, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj ajsíx f unj d ijxujfit, d
ráx ywfénx xjrjofsef ij ijxltgjwsfit vzj ij ltgjwsfitw?

-Hfqqf, Yjwjxf -wjxutsinó Xfshmt-, vzj rzhmfx ajhjx itsij mfd jxyfhfx st
mfd ythnstx, d aártstx f szjxywf hfxf, vzj fqqá tnwáx rfwfanqqfx. Insjwtx
ywfnlt, vzj jx qt vzj nrutwyf, lfsfitx utw rn nsizxywnf d xns ifñt ij
sfinj.

-Ywfji atx insjwt, rn gzjs rfwnit -inot Yjwjxf-, d xjfs lfsfitx utw fvzí t
utw fqqí, vzj, htrtvznjwf vzj qtx mfdánx lfsfit, st mfgwénx mjhmt zxfsef
szjaf js jq rzsit.

Fgwfeó Xfshmnhf f xz ufiwj, d uwjlzsyóqj xn ywfíf fqlt, vzj qj jxyfgf
jxujwfsit htrt jq flzf ij rfdt; d, fxnésitqj ij zs qfit ijq hnsyt, d xz
rzojw ij qf rfst, ynwfsit xz mnof fq wzhnt, xj kzjwts f xz hfxf, ijofsit f
its Vznotyj js qf xzdf, js utijw ij xz xtgwnsf d ij xz frf, d js htrufñíf
ijq hzwf d ijq gfhmnqqjw.

Its Vznotyj, xns lzfwifw yéwrnstx sn mtwfx, js fvzjq rnxrt uzsyt xj fufwyó
f xtqfx hts jq gfhmnqqjw d jq hzwf, d js gwjajx wfetsjx qjx htsyó xz
ajshnrnjsyt, d qf tgqnlfhnós js vzj mfgíf vzjifit ij st xfqnw ij xz fqijf
js zs fñt, qf hzfq ujsxfgf lzfwifw fq unj ij qf qjywf, xns ywfxufxfwqf js
zs áytrt, gnjs fxí htrt hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj, tgqnlfit utw qf uzsyzfqnifi d
twijs ij qf fsifsyj hfgfqqjwíf, d vzj yjsíf ujsxfit ij mfhjwxj fvzjq fñt
ufxytw, d jsywjyjsjwxj js qf xtqjifi ij qtx hfrutx, itsij f wnjsif xzjqyf
utiíf ifw afit f xzx frtwtxtx ujsxfrnjsytx, jojwhnyásitxj js jq ufxytwfq d
anwyztxt jojwhnhnt; d vzj qjx xzuqnhfgf, xn st yjsífs rzhmt vzj mfhjw d st
jxyfgfs nrujinitx js sjlthntx ráx nrutwyfsyjx, vznxnjxjs xjw xzx
htrufñjwtx; vzj éq htruwfwíf tajofx d lfsfit xzknhnjsyj vzj qjx injxj
strgwj ij ufxytwjx; d vzj qjx mfhíf xfgjw vzj qt ráx uwnshnufq ij fvzjq
sjlthnt jxyfgf mjhmt, utwvzj qjx yjsíf uzjxytx qtx strgwjx, vzj qjx
ajsiwífs htrt ij rtqij. Iíotqj jq hzwf vzj qtx inojxj. Wjxutsinó its
Vznotyj vzj éq xj mfgíf ij qqfrfw jq ufxytw Vznotyne; d jq gfhmnqqjw, jq
ufxytw Hfwwfxhós; d jq hzwf, jq ufxytw Hzwfrgwt; d Xfshmt Ufsef, jq ufxytw
Ufshnst.

Ufxráwtsxj ytitx ij ajw qf szjaf qthzwf ij its Vznotyj; ujwt, utwvzj st xj
qjx kzjxj tywf aje ijq uzjgqt f xzx hfgfqqjwífx, jxujwfsit vzj js fvzjq fñt
utiwíf xjw hzwfit, htshjinjwts hts xz szjaf nsyjshnós, d fuwtgfwts utw
inxhwjyf xz qthzwf, tkwjhnésitxjqj utw htrufñjwtx js xz jojwhnhnt.

-D ráx -inot Xfsxós Hfwwfxht-, vzj, htrt df ytit jq rzsit xfgj, dt xtd
hjqjgéwwnrt utjyf d f hfif ufxt htrutsiwé ajwxtx ufxytwnqjx, t htwyjxfstx,
t htrt ráx rj ansnjwj f hzjsyt, ufwf vzj stx jsywjyjslfrtx utw jxtx
fsizwwnfqjx itsij mfgjrtx ij fsifw; d qt vzj ráx jx rjsjxyjw, xjñtwjx rítx,
jx vzj hfif zst jxhtof jq strgwj ij qf ufxytwf vzj unjsxf hjqjgwfw js xzx
ajwxtx, d vzj st ijojrtx áwgtq, utw izwt vzj xjf, itsij st qf wjyzqj d
lwfgj xz strgwj, htrt jx zxt d htxyzrgwj ij qtx jsfrtwfitx ufxytwjx.

-Jxt jxyá ij rtqij -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, uzjxyt vzj dt jxytd qngwj ij
gzxhfw strgwj ij ufxytwf knslnif, uzjx jxyá fmí qf xns ufw Izqhnsjf ijq
Ytgtxt, lqtwnf ij jxyfx wngjwfx, fitwst ij jxytx uwfitx, xzxyjsyt ij qf
mjwrtxzwf, sfyf ij qtx itsfnwjx, d, knsfqrjsyj, xzojyt xtgwj vznjs uzjij
fxjsyfw gnjs ytif fqfgfsef, utw mnuéwgtqj vzj xjf.

-Fxí jx ajwifi -inot jq hzwf-, ujwt stxtywtx gzxhfwjrtx utw fmí ufxytwfx
rfñjwzjqfx, vzj xn st stx hzfiwfwjs, stx jxvznsjs.

F qt vzj fñfinó Xfsxós Hfwwfxht:

-D hzfsit kfqyfwjs, ifwértxqjx qtx strgwjx ij qfx jxyfrufifx j nruwjxfx,
ij vznjs jxyá qqjst jq rzsit: Kíqnifx, Frfwnqnx, Infsfx, Kqéwnifx,
Lfqfyjfx d Gjqnxfwifx; vzj, uzjx qfx ajsijs js qfx uqfefx, gnjs qfx utijrtx
htruwfw stxtywtx d yjsjwqfx utw szjxywfx. Xn rn ifrf, t, utw rjotw ijhnw,
rn ufxytwf, utw ajsyzwf xj qqfrfwj Fsf, qf hjqjgwfwé ijgfot ijq strgwj ij
Fsfwif; d xn Kwfshnxhf, qf qqfrfwé dt Kwfshjsnf; d xn Qzhíf, Qzhnsif, vzj
ytit xj xfqj fqqá; d Xfshmt Ufsef, xn jx vzj mf ij jsywfw js jxyf htkfiwíf,
utiwá hjqjgwfw f xz rzojw Yjwjxf Ufsef hts strgwj ij Yjwjxfnsf.

Wnóxj its Vznotyj ij qf fuqnhfhnós ijq strgwj, d jq hzwf qj fqfgó nsknsnyt
xz mtsjxyf d mtswfif wjxtqzhnós, d xj tkwjhnó ij szjat f mfhjwqj htrufñíf
ytit jq ynjrut vzj qj afhfxj ij fyjsijw f xzx ktwetxfx tgqnlfhntsjx. Hts
jxyt, xj ijxuninjwts iéq, d qj wtlfwts d fhtsxjofwts yzanjxj hzjsyf hts xz
xfqzi, hts wjlfqfwxj qt vzj kzjxj gzjst.

Vznxt qf xzjwyj vzj xz xtgwnsf d jq frf tdjwts qf uqáynhf ij qtx ywjx; d,
fxí htrt xj kzjwts, xj jsywfwts jsywfrgfx hts its Vznotyj, d qf xtgwnsf qj
inot:

-¿Vzé jx jxyt, xjñtw yít? ¿Fmtwf vzj ujsxágfrtx stxtywfx vzj azjxywf rjwhji
atqaíf f wjizhnwxj js xz hfxf, d ufxfw js jqqf zsf anif vznjyf d mtswfif,
xj vznjwj rjyjw js szjatx qfgjwnsytx, mfhnésitxj

   Ufxytwhnqqt, yú vzj anjsjx,
   ufxytwhnht, yú vzj afx?

Uzjx js ajwifi vzj jxyá df izwt jq fqhfhjq ufwf efrutñfx.

F qt vzj fñfinó jq frf:

D ¿utiwá azjxywf rjwhji ufxfw js jq hfrut qfx xnjxyfx ijq ajwfst, qtx
xjwjstx ijq nsanjwst, jq fzqqnit ij qtx qtgtx? St, utw hnjwyt, vzj éxyj jx
jojwhnhnt d tknhnt ij mtrgwjx wtgzxytx, hzwynitx d hwnfitx ufwf yfq
rnsnxyjwnt hfxn ijxij qfx kfofx d rfsynqqfx. Fzs, rfq utw rfq, rjotw jx xjw
hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj vzj ufxytw. Rnwj, xjñtw, ytrj rn htsxjot, vzj st xj qj
itd xtgwj jxyfw mfwyf ij ufs d anst, xnst js fdzsfx, d xtgwj hnshzjsyf fñtx
vzj yjslt ij jifi: jxyéxj js xz hfxf, fynjsif f xz mfhnjsif, htsknjxj f
rjszit, kfatwjehf f qtx utgwjx, d xtgwj rn ásnrf xn rfq qj kzjwj.

-Hfqqfi, mnofx -qjx wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, vzj dt xé gnjs qt vzj rj
hzruqj. Qqjafirj fq qjhmt, vzj rj ufwjhj vzj st jxytd rzd gzjst, d yjsji
utw hnjwyt vzj, fmtwf xjf hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj t ufxytw utw fsifw, st ijofwé
xnjruwj ij fhzinw f qt vzj mzgnéwjijx rjsjxyjw, htrt qt ajwénx utw qf tgwf.

D qfx gzjsfx mnofx -vzj qt jwfs xns izif frf d xtgwnsf- qj qqjafwts f qf
hfrf, itsij qj injwts ij htrjw d wjlfqfwts qt utxngqj.





Hfuíyzqt QCCNA. Ij hórt its Vznotyj hfdó rfqt, d ijq yjxyfrjsyt vzj mnet, d
xz rzjwyj


Htrt qfx htxfx mzrfsfx st xjfs jyjwsfx, djsit xnjruwj js ijhqnsfhnós ij xzx
uwnshnuntx mfxyf qqjlfw f xz úqynrt kns, jxujhnfqrjsyj qfx anifx ij qtx
mtrgwjx, d htrt qf ij its Vznotyj st yzanjxj uwnanqjlnt ijq hnjqt ufwf
ijyjsjw jq hzwxt ij qf xzdf, qqjló xz kns d fhfgfrnjsyt hzfsit éq rjstx qt
ujsxfgf; utwvzj, t df kzjxj ij qf rjqfshtqíf vzj qj hfzxfgf jq ajwxj
ajshnit, t df utw qf inxutxnhnós ijq hnjqt, vzj fxí qt twijsfgf, xj qj
fwwfnló zsf hfqjsyzwf vzj qj yzat xjnx iífx js qf hfrf, js qtx hzfqjx kzj
anxnyfit rzhmfx ajhjx ijq hzwf, ijq gfhmnqqjw d ijq gfwgjwt, xzx frnltx,
xns vznyáwxjqj ij qf hfgjhjwf Xfshmt Ufsef, xz gzjs jxhzijwt.

Éxytx, hwjdjsit vzj qf ujxfizrgwj ij ajwxj ajshnit d ij st ajw hzruqnit xz
ijxjt js qf qngjwyfi d ijxjshfsyt ij Izqhnsjf qj yjsíf ij fvzjqqf xzjwyj,
utw ytifx qfx aífx utxngqjx uwthzwfgfs fqjlwfwqj, inhnésitqj jq gfhmnqqjw
vzj xj fsnrfxj d qjafsyfxj, ufwf htrjsefw xz ufxytwfq jojwhnhnt, ufwf jq
hzfq yjsíf df htruzjxyf zsf éhqtlf, vzj rfq fñt ufwf hzfsyfx Xfsfefwt mfgíf
htruzjxyt, d vzj df yjsíf htruwfitx ij xz uwtunt insjwt itx kfrtxtx ujwwtx
ufwf lzfwifw jq lfsfit: jq zst qqfrfit Gfwhnst, d jq tywt Gzywós, vzj xj
qtx mfgíf ajsinit zs lfsfijwt ijq Vznsyfsfw. Ujwt st utw jxyt ijofgf its
Vznotyj xzx ywnxyjefx.

Qqfrfwts xzx frnltx fq réinht, ytróqj jq uzqxt, d st qj htsyjsyó rzhmt, d
inot vzj, utw xí t utw st, fyjsinjxj f qf xfqzi ij xz fqrf, utwvzj qf ijq
hzjwut htwwíf ujqnlwt. Tdóqt its Vznotyj hts ásnrt xtxjlfit, ujwt st qt
tdjwts fxí xz frf, xz xtgwnsf d xz jxhzijwt, qtx hzfqjx htrjsefwts f qqtwfw
ynjwsfrjsyj, htrt xn df qj yzanjwfs rzjwyt ijqfsyj. Kzj jq ufwjhjw ijq
réinht vzj rjqfshtqífx d ijxfgwnrnjsytx qj fhfgfgfs. Wtló its Vznotyj vzj
qj ijofxjs xtqt, utwvzj vzjwíf itwrnw zs utht. Mnhnéwtsqt fxí d izwrnó ij
zs ynwós, htrt inhjs, ráx ij xjnx mtwfx; yfsyt, vzj ujsxfwts jq frf d qf
xtgwnsf vzj xj mfgíf ij vzjifw js jq xzjñt. Ijxujwyó fq hfgt ijq ynjrut
inhmt, d, ifsit zsf lwfs ate, inot:

-¡Gjsinyt xjf jq utijwtxt Intx, vzj yfsyt gnjs rj mf mjhmt! Js kns, xzx
rnxjwnhtwinfx st ynjsjs qírnyj, sn qfx fgwjanfs sn nrunijs qtx ujhfitx ij
qtx mtrgwjx.

Jxyzat fyjsyf qf xtgwnsf f qfx wfetsjx ijq yít, d ufwjhnéwtsqj ráx
htshjwyfifx vzj éq xtqíf ijhnwqfx, f qt rjstx, js fvzjqqf jskjwrjifi, d
uwjlzsyóqj:

-¿Vzé jx qt vzj azjxywf rjwhji inhj, xjñtw? ¿Yjsjrtx fqlt ij szjat? ¿Vzé
rnxjwnhtwinfx xts éxyfx, t vzé ujhfitx ij qtx mtrgwjx?

-Qfx rnxjwnhtwinfx -wjxutsinó its Vznotyj-, xtgwnsf, xts qfx vzj js jxyj
nsxyfsyj mf zxfit Intx htsrnlt, f vznjs, htrt inoj, st qfx nrunijs rnx
ujhfitx. Dt yjslt oznhnt df, qngwj d hqfwt, xns qfx xtrgwfx hfqnlnstxfx ij
qf nlstwfshnf, vzj xtgwj éq rj uzxnjwts rn frfwlf d htsynszf qjdjsif ij qtx
ijyjxyfgqjx qngwtx ij qfx hfgfqqjwífx. Df htsteht xzx inxufwfyjx d xzx
jrgjqjhtx, d st rj ujxf xnst vzj jxyj ijxjslfñt mf qqjlfit yfs yfwij, vzj
st rj ijof ynjrut ufwf mfhjw fqlzsf wjhtrujsxf, qjdjsit tywtx vzj xjfs qze
ijq fqrf. Dt rj xnjsyt, xtgwnsf, f uzsyt ij rzjwyj; vzjwwíf mfhjwqf ij yfq
rtit, vzj injxj f jsyjsijw vzj st mfgíf xnit rn anif yfs rfqf vzj ijofxj
wjstrgwj ij qtht, vzj, uzjxyt vzj qt mj xnit, st vzjwwíf htsknwrfw jxyf
ajwifi js rn rzjwyj. Qqárfrj, frnlf, f rnx gzjstx frnltx: jq hzwf, fq
gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht d f rfjxj Snhtqáx, jq gfwgjwt, vzj vznjwt
htskjxfwrj d mfhjw rn yjxyfrjsyt.

Ujwt ij jxyj ywfgfot xj jxhzxó qf xtgwnsf hts qf jsywfif ij qtx ywjx.
Fujsfx qtx ant its Vznotyj, hzfsit inot:

-Ifirj fqgwnhnfx, gzjstx xjñtwjx, ij vzj df dt st xtd its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, xnst Fqtsxt Vznofst, f vznjs rnx htxyzrgwjx rj injwts wjstrgwj ij
Gzjst. Df xtd jsjrnlt ij Frfiíx ij Lfzqf d ij ytif qf nsknsnyf hfyjwaf ij
xz qnsfoj, df rj xts tintxfx ytifx qfx mnxytwnfx uwtkfsfx ijq fsifsyj
hfgfqqjwíf, df htsteht rn sjhjifi d jq ujqnlwt js vzj rj uzxnjwts mfgjwqfx
qjíit, df, utw rnxjwnhtwinf ij Intx, jxhfwrjsyfsit js hfgjef uwtunf, qfx
fgtrnst.

Hzfsit jxyt qj tdjwts ijhnw qtx ywjx, hwjdjwts, xns izif, vzj fqlzsf szjaf
qthzwf qj mfgíf ytrfit. D Xfsxós qj inot:

-¿Fmtwf, xjñtw its Vznotyj, vzj yjsjrtx szjaf vzj jxyá ijxjshfsyfif qf
xjñtwf Izqhnsjf, xfqj azjxywf rjwhji hts jxt? D ¿fltwf vzj jxyfrtx yfs f
unvzj ij xjw ufxytwjx, ufwf ufxfw hfsyfsit qf anif, htrt zstx uwíshnujx,
vznjwj azjxf rjwhji mfhjwxj jwrnyfñt? Hfqqj, utw xz anif, azjqaf js xí, d
iéojxj ij hzjsytx.

-Qtx ij mfxyf fvzí -wjuqnhó its Vznotyj-, vzj mfs xnit ajwifijwtx js rn
ifñt, qtx mf ij atqajw rn rzjwyj, hts fdzif ijq hnjqt, js rn uwtajhmt. Dt,
xjñtwjx, xnjsyt vzj rj atd rzwnjsit f ytif uwnjxf; iéojsxj gzwqfx fufwyj, d
ywfílfsrj zs htskjxtw vzj rj htsknjxj d zs jxhwngfst vzj mflf rn
yjxyfrjsyt, vzj js yfqjx ywfshjx htrt éxyj st xj mf ij gzwqfw jq mtrgwj hts
jq fqrf; d fxí, xzuqnht vzj, js yfsyt vzj jq xjñtw hzwf rj htsknjxf, afdfs
utw jq jxhwngfst.

Rnwáwtsxj zstx f tywtx, firnwfitx ij qfx wfetsjx ij its Vznotyj, d, fzsvzj
js izif, qj vznxnjwts hwjjw; d zsf ij qfx xjñfqjx utw itsij htsojyzwfwts xj
rtwíf kzj jq mfgjw azjqyt hts yfsyf kfhnqnifi ij qtht f hzjwit, utwvzj f
qfx df inhmfx wfetsjx fñfinó tywfx rzhmfx yfs gnjs inhmfx, yfs hwnxynfsfx d
hts yfsyt htshnjwyt, vzj ijq ytit qjx anst f vznyfw qf izif, d f hwjjw vzj
jxyfgf hzjwit.

Mnet xfqnw qf ljsyj jq hzwf, d vzjióxj xtqt hts éq, d htskjxóqj.

Jq gfhmnqqjw kzj utw jq jxhwngfst, d ij fqqí f utht atqanó hts éq d hts
Xfshmt Ufsef; jq hzfq Xfshmt, vzj df xfgíf utw szjafx ijq gfhmnqqjw js vzé
jxyfit jxyfgf xz xjñtw, mfqqfsit f qf frf d f qf xtgwnsf qqtwtxfx, htrjseó
f mfhjw uzhmjwtx d f ijwwfrfw qálwnrfx. Fhfgóxj qf htskjxnós, d xfqnó jq
hzwf, inhnjsit:

-Ajwifijwfrjsyj xj rzjwj, d ajwifijwfrjsyj jxyá hzjwit Fqtsxt Vznofst jq
Gzjst; gnjs utijrtx jsywfw ufwf vzj mflf xz yjxyfrjsyt.

Jxyfx szjafx injwts zs yjwwngqj jruzoós f qtx totx uwjñfitx ij frf, xtgwnsf
d ij Xfshmt Ufsef, xz gzjs jxhzijwt, ij yfq rfsjwf, vzj qtx mnet wjajsyfw
qfx qálwnrfx ij qtx totx d rnq uwtkzsitx xzxunwtx ijq ujhmt; utwvzj,
ajwifijwfrjsyj, htrt fqlzsf aje xj mf inhmt, js yfsyt vzj its Vznotyj kzj
Fqtsxt Vznofst jq Gzjst, f xjhfx, d js yfsyt vzj kzj its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, kzj xnjruwj ij fufhngqj htsinhnós d ij flwfifgqj ywfyt, d utw jxyt
st xóqt jwf gnjs vzjwnit ij qtx ij xz hfxf, xnst ij ytitx hzfsytx qj
htsthífs.

Jsywó jq jxhwngfst hts qtx ijráx, d, ijxuzéx ij mfgjw mjhmt qf hfgjef ijq
yjxyfrjsyt d twijsfit xz fqrf its Vznotyj, hts ytifx fvzjqqfx
hnwhzsxyfshnfx hwnxynfsfx vzj xj wjvznjwjs, qqjlfsit f qfx rfsifx, inot:

-Íyjr, jx rn atqzsyfi vzj ij hnjwytx insjwtx vzj Xfshmt Ufsef, f vznjs js
rn qthzwf mnhj rn jxhzijwt, ynjsj, vzj, utwvzj mf mfgnit jsywj éq d rí
hnjwyfx hzjsyfx, d ifwjx d ytrfwjx, vznjwt vzj st xj qj mflf hfwlt ijqqtx,
sn xj qj unif hzjsyf fqlzsf, xnst vzj xn xtgwfwj fqlzst, ijxuzéx ij mfgjwxj
uflfit ij qt vzj qj ijgt, jq wjxyfsyj xjf xzdt, vzj xjwá gnjs utht, d gzjs
uwtajhmt qj mflf; d, xn htrt jxyfsit dt qtht kzn ufwyj ufwf ifwqj jq
ltgnjwst ij qf ísxzqf, uzinjwf fltwf, jxyfsit hzjwit, ifwqj jq ij zs wjnst,
xj qj injwf, utwvzj qf xjshnqqje ij xz htsinhnós d knijqnifi ij xz ywfyt qt
rjwjhj.

D, atqanésitxj f Xfshmt, qj inot:

-Ujwiósfrj, frnlt, ij qf thfxnós vzj yj mj ifit ij ufwjhjw qtht htrt dt,
mfhnésityj hfjw js jq jwwtw js vzj dt mj hfíit, ij vzj mzgt d mfd
hfgfqqjwtx fsifsyjx js jq rzsit.

-¡Fd! -wjxutsinó Xfshmt, qqtwfsit-: st xj rzjwf azjxywf rjwhji, xjñtw rít,
xnst ytrj rn htsxjot d anaf rzhmtx fñtx, utwvzj qf rfdtw qthzwf vzj uzjij
mfhjw zs mtrgwj js jxyf anif jx ijofwxj rtwnw, xns ráx sn ráx, xns vzj
sfinj qj rfyj, sn tywfx rfstx qj fhfgjs vzj qfx ij qf rjqfshtqíf. Rnwj st
xjf ujwjetxt, xnst qjaásyjxj ijxf hfrf, d aártstx fq hfrut ajxynitx ij
ufxytwjx, htrt yjsjrtx htshjwyfit: vzneá ywfx ij fqlzsf rfyf mfqqfwjrtx f
qf xjñtwf itñf Izqhnsjf ijxjshfsyfif, vzj st mfdf ráx vzj ajw. Xn jx vzj xj
rzjwj ij ujxfw ij ajwxj ajshnit, éhmjrj f rí qf hzquf, inhnjsit vzj utw
mfgjw dt hnshmfit rfq f Wthnsfsyj qj ijwwngfwts; hzfsyt ráx, vzj azjxywf
rjwhji mfgwá anxyt js xzx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx xjw htxf twinsfwnf
ijwwngfwxj zstx hfgfqqjwtx f tywtx, d jq vzj jx ajshnit mtd xjw ajshjitw
rfñfsf.

-Fxí jx -inot Xfsxós-, d jq gzjs Xfshmt Ufsef jxyá rzd js qf ajwifi ijxytx
hfxtx.

-Xjñtwjx -inot its Vznotyj-, aártstx utht f utht, uzjx df js qtx snitx ij
fsyfñt st mfd uáofwtx mtlfñt: dt kzn qtht, d df xtd hzjwit; kzn its Vznotyj
ij qf Rfshmf, d xtd fltwf, htrt mj inhmt, Fqtsxt Vznofst jq Gzjst. Uzjif
hts azjxywfx rjwhjijx rn fwwjujsynrnjsyt d rn ajwifi atqajwrj f qf
jxynrfhnós vzj ij rí xj yjsíf, d uwtxnlf fijqfsyj jq xjñtw jxhwngfst.

»Íyjr, rfsit ytif rn mfhnjsif, f uzjwyf hjwwfif, f Fsytsnf Vznofsf, rn
xtgwnsf, vzj jxyá uwjxjsyj, mfgnjsit xfhfit uwnrjwt ij qt ráx gnjs ufwfit
ijqqf qt vzj kzjwj rjsjxyjw ufwf hzruqnw qfx rfsifx vzj ijot mjhmfx; d qf
uwnrjwf xfynxkfhnós vzj xj mflf vznjwt vzj xjf uflfw jq xfqfwnt vzj ijgt
ijq ynjrut vzj rn frf rj mf xjwanit, d ráx ajnsyj izhfitx ufwf zs ajxynit.
Ijot utw rnx fqgfhjfx fq xjñtw hzwf d fq xjñtw gfhmnqqjw Xfsxós Hfwwfxht,
vzj jxyás uwjxjsyjx.

»Íyjr, jx rn atqzsyfi vzj xn Fsytsnf Vznofsf, rn xtgwnsf, vznxnjwj hfxfwxj,
xj hfxj hts mtrgwj ij vznjs uwnrjwt xj mfdf mjhmt nsktwrfhnós vzj st xfgj
vzé htxfx xjfs qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx; d, js hfxt vzj xj fajwnlzfwj vzj qt
xfgj, d, hts ytit jxt, rn xtgwnsf vznxnjwj hfxfwxj hts éq, d xj hfxfwj,
unjwif ytit qt vzj qj mj rfsifit, qt hzfq uzjifs rnx fqgfhjfx inxywngznw js
tgwfx uífx f xz atqzsyfi.

»Íyjr, xzuqnht f qtx inhmtx xjñtwjx rnx fqgfhjfx vzj xn qf gzjsf xzjwyj qjx
ywzojwj f htsthjw fq fzytw vzj inhjs vzj htruzxt zsf mnxytwnf vzj fsif utw
fmí hts jq yíyzqt ij Xjlzsif ufwyj ij qfx mfefñfx ij its Vznotyj ij qf
Rfshmf, ij rn ufwyj qj unifs, hzfs jshfwjhnifrjsyj xjw uzjif, ujwitsj qf
thfxnós vzj xns dt ujsxfwqt qj in ij mfgjw jxhwnyt yfsytx d yfs lwfsijx
inxufwfyjx htrt js jqqf jxhwngj, utwvzj ufwyt ijxyf anif hts jxhwúuzqt ij
mfgjwqj ifit rtynat ufwf jxhwngnwqtx.

Hjwwó hts jxyt jq yjxyfrjsyt, d, ytrásitqj zs ijxrfdt, xj yjsinó ij qfwlt f
qfwlt js qf hfrf. Fqgtwtyáwtsxj ytitx d fhzinjwts f xz wjrjint, d js ywjx
iífx vzj ananó ijxuzéx ijxyj itsij mnet jq yjxyfrjsyt, xj ijxrfdfgf rzd f
rjszit. Fsifgf qf hfxf fqgtwtyfif; ujwt, hts ytit, htríf qf xtgwnsf,
gwnsifgf jq frf, d xj wjlthnofgf Xfshmt Ufsef; vzj jxyt ijq mjwjifw fqlt
gtwwf t yjruqf js jq mjwjijwt qf rjrtwnf ij qf ujsf vzj jx wfeós vzj ijoj
jq rzjwyt.

Js kns, qqjló jq úqynrt ij its Vznotyj, ijxuzéx ij wjhjgnitx ytitx qtx
xfhwfrjsytx, d ijxuzéx ij mfgjw fgtrnsfit hts rzhmfx d jknhfhjx wfetsjx ij
qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx. Mfqqóxj jq jxhwngfst uwjxjsyj, d inot vzj szshf
mfgíf qjíit js snslús qngwt ij hfgfqqjwífx vzj fqlús hfgfqqjwt fsifsyj
mzgnjxj rzjwyt js xz qjhmt yfs xtxjlfifrjsyj d yfs hwnxynfst htrt its
Vznotyj; jq hzfq, jsywj htrufxntsjx d qálwnrfx ij qtx vzj fqqí xj mfqqfwts,
int xz jxuíwnyz: vznjwt ijhnw vzj xj rzwnó.

Anjsit qt hzfq jq hzwf, uninó fq jxhwngfst qj injxj utw yjxynrtsnt htrt
Fqtsxt Vznofst jq Gzjst, qqfrfit htrúsrjsyj its Vznotyj ij qf Rfshmf, mfgíf
ufxfit ijxyf uwjxjsyj anif d rzjwyt sfyzwfqrjsyj; d vzj jq yfq yjxynrtsnt
ujiíf ufwf vznyfw qf thfxnós ij fqlús tywt fzytw vzj Hnij Mfrjyj Gjsjsljqn
qj wjxzhnyfxj kfqxfrjsyj, d mnhnjxj nsfhfgfgqjx mnxytwnfx ij xzx mfefñfx.

Jxyj kns yzat jq Nsljsntxt Mnifqlt ij qf Rfshmf, hzdt qzlfw st vznxt utsjw
Hnij Mfrjyj uzsyzfqrjsyj, utw ijofw vzj ytifx qfx anqqfx d qzlfwjx ij qf
Rfshmf htsyjsinjxjs jsywj xí utw fmnoáwxjqj d yjséwxjqj utw xzdt, htrt
htsyjsinjwts qfx xnjyj hnzifijx ij Lwjhnf utw Mtrjwt.

Iéofsxj ij utsjw fvzí qtx qqfsytx ij Xfshmt, xtgwnsf d frf ij its Vznotyj,
qtx szjatx junyfkntx ij xz xjuzqyzwf, fzsvzj Xfsxós Hfwwfxht qj uzxt éxyj:

   Dfhj fvzí jq Mnifqlt kzjwyj
   vzj f yfsyt jxywjrt qqjló
   ij afqnjsyj, vzj xj fianjwyj
   vzj qf rzjwyj st ywnzskó
   ij xz anif hts xz rzjwyj.
   Yzat f ytit jq rzsit js utht;
   kzj jq jxufsyfot d jq htht
   ijq rzsit, js yfq htdzsyzwf,
   vzj fhwjinyó xz ajsyzwf
   rtwnw hzjwit d ananw qtht.

D jq uwzijsyíxnrt Hnij Mfrjyj inot f xz uqzrf:

-Fvzí vzjifwáx, htqlfif ijxyf jxujyjwf d ijxyj mnqt ij fqfrgwj, sn xé xn
gnjs htwyfif t rfq yfofif uéñtqf ríf, fitsij ananwáx qzjsltx xnlqtx, xn
uwjxzsyztxtx d rfqfsiwnsjx mnxytwnfitwjx st yj ijxhzjqlfs ufwf uwtkfsfwyj.
Ujwt, fsyjx vzj f yn qqjlzjs, qjx uzjijx fiajwynw, d ijhnwqjx js jq rjotw
rtit vzj uzinjwjx:

   ''¡Yfyj, yfyj, ktqqtshnhtx!
   Ij snslzst xjf ythfif;
   utwvzj jxyf nruwjxf, gzjs wjd,
   ufwf rí jxyfgf lzfwifif.

Ufwf rí xtqf sfhnó its Vznotyj, d dt ufwf éq; éq xzut tgwfw d dt jxhwngnw;
xtqtx qtx itx xtrtx ufwf js zst, f ijxujhmt d ujxfw ijq jxhwnytw knslnit d
ytwijxnqqjxht vzj xj fywjanó, t xj mf ij fywjajw, f jxhwngnw hts uqzrf ij
fajxywze lwtxjwf d rfq ijqnñfif qfx mfefñfx ij rn afqjwtxt hfgfqqjwt,
utwvzj st jx hfwlf ij xzx mtrgwtx sn fxzsyt ij xz wjxkwnfit nsljsnt; f
vznjs fiajwynwáx, xn fhfxt qqjlfx f htsthjwqj, vzj ijoj wjutxfw js qf
xjuzqyzwf qtx hfsxfitx d df utiwnitx mzjxtx ij its Vznotyj, d st qj vznjwf
qqjafw, htsywf ytitx qtx kzjwtx ij qf rzjwyj, f Hfxynqqf qf Anjof,
mfhnésitqj xfqnw ij qf kzjxf itsij wjfq d ajwifijwfrjsyj dfhj yjsinit ij
qfwlt f qfwlt, nrutxngnqnyfit ij mfhjw yjwhjwf otwsfif d xfqnif szjaf; vzj,
ufwf mfhjw gzwqf ij yfsyfx htrt mnhnjwts yfsytx fsifsyjx hfgfqqjwtx, gfxyfs
qfx itx vzj éq mnet, yfs f lzxyt d gjsjuqáhnyt ij qfx ljsyjx f hzdf stynhnf
qqjlfwts, fxí js éxytx htrt js qtx jxywfñtx wjnstx''. D hts jxyt hzruqnwáx
hts yz hwnxynfsf uwtkjxnós, fhtsxjofsit gnjs f vznjs rfq yj vznjwj, d dt
vzjifwé xfynxkjhmt d zkfst ij mfgjw xnit jq uwnrjwt vzj lteó jq kwzyt ij
xzx jxhwnytx jsyjwfrjsyj, htrt ijxjfgf, uzjx st mf xnit tywt rn ijxjt vzj
utsjw js fgtwwjhnrnjsyt ij qtx mtrgwjx qfx knslnifx d inxufwfyfifx
mnxytwnfx ij qtx qngwtx ij hfgfqqjwífx, vzj, utw qfx ij rn ajwifijwt its
Vznotyj, afs df ywtujefsit, d mfs ij hfjw ijq ytit, xns izif fqlzsf. Afqj.



Kns
